



My Rosy Cheeks




I have very rosy cheeks today
I think I'm just embarassed about something
What it is i cannot say

Are my cheeks red?
I pinch them every night
Just before I go to bed

People say I blush
Or maybe I'm a "delicate flower"
Perhaps I just have a crush...

But my cheeks are just rosy
That's the way I am
Don't you be so nosy
Or I'll unleash me mam





The Scientist




The Scientist :
Under capitalism, become money-makers rather than pursuers of knowledge,
Under communism have empty pockets, no money to further their knowledge.

The Scientist 2013:
Under capitalism, sparse funding, no money in circulation,
Under communism, what communism?





[untitled]




For love is gained and love is lost in supersonic measures,
And trust is swapped, stained and soiled for biogenic pleasures.
My human heart, a work of art, a miraculous endeavor,
Is nothing more than a fatal flaw in the world of natural treasures.





In Light of our own Design




They turned wheels and pushed carts,
As the hearts of man pooled and fought a universal struggle,
They brought sharp tools, bright ideas and white paper
And shifted the tide in their favour,
They broke the atom
That held together inanimate boundaries and physical obstacles,
A reduction in mass
That reaped destruction of cells and molecules,
And split the very manner of matter
Of which a vengeful god lived in,
The officers of war tarnished the reputation of man,
Harnessing the power that not even philosophers dreamed,
The first breath, from the cradle of discovery where it would begin,
To the same man who screamed: “I am become death,”
Who lowered our heads down in shame
And became sombre in light of our everlasting sin.





Dodgeball




Dodge, duck, dip, dive, and dodge,
These are all key to win the game,
Hit, catch, out or dislodge,
What are we playing? Dodgeballs the name,

Six on six is how you will start,
It won’t last for long so don’t worry now,
Try not to lose or it breaks your heart,
Sometimes you will, and you’ll just think how?!

Strong, quick and agile you’ll be,
Throwing, running, jumping all day
Making new friends like ABC.
Soon you will see there’s no other way.

It’s what we do, it’s how we live,
Was there a time we weren’t together?
Dodgeball’s the sport with so much to give,
I hope you will join us, and join us forever.





Formula Fun




Ferraris are red,
Red Bulls are blue,
Watch out for Grosjean,
And Sutil is poo.





Who Creates The Shadows




Who told you darkness and light are enemies,
While the light is just behind the darkness,
Think ,who creates the shadows,
When you stand towards the sun,
So tell me if shadows are darkness,
Who creates the shadows,
If you want so, just move aside,
Let the sunshine inside,
Let the science inside.





A poem about love and passion




No, dude with the ponytail,
I don't want to hear how if we hooked up,
it would be like superposition of two waves in phase.





The Guns of War




All things must pass with time
All things must pass with the guns of war
Accidents happen
War is no accident
The feet of solders
The sound of death
The guns of war
Where is the peace
What peace is there left
When will the guns of war
The sound of destruction
The smell of death!
When will it end.
Where is the peace
Among the Guns of War!

All things must pass.





Knowledge is better than curiosity




A blank page, a pure head

A first year, still unfed

Until he ‘till dawn on his desk sat

Quantum Mechanics in bed read

And the rigorous teachings their light shed

And him like a pet on the “only right way" lead.

That could not be a threat!





Eight minutes




Still there are
Another eight minutes of light

To ask why
To answer how

Even the sun were to die now

From forest
From darkness

In all glorious eight minutes
We walked out





Binary




A data stream, pouring from the minds of those that it connects,
Binary torrents, one and zero, on and off, high and low.
They keep us together, keep us entertained, keep us educated.

But.

They allow for no in-between. No grey in the black-and-white.
No perhaps and no almost, no long-shots.

Nothing to leave to chance.
No chance, no room for error.
Full stop.

Everything reduced to two things:

Yes.
No.

How can this be a future for us all?





Experimental Error




Climbing up the stairs, one by one, to the lab,
Lights on, pen out, where did I leave off?
One more day of watching, tweaking, observing, repeating,
As electrons spin, whirl and soar, flowing
wave to particle, the complex elementary
dance goes ever on. Wait.
Why isn't it working?
I give up.
It's broken.


Ah.
I forgot to plug it in.





Programmer's life




PHP, JAVA and C,

That's what I do,

In my University.

I will solve world problems,

I will fight the crime,

Girls will want me, eventually.

I am superhero,

I am Programmer,

99 percent of people,

Have no idea what I do,

But at night, they are safe,

Because of me,

They'll understand it...

Eventually...





Perfect project




Schedule an schedule, earlier or later
Duration within duration, shorter or longer
Resource replace resource,smoothing or levelling,
That is
Whether project network is perfect or not





Schrödinger's Cat.




There are ladders to climb
And octaves to descend;
There are people to kill,
There are people to die;
There’s God,
Whistling Bach in orchestral overtures;

He’ll never know,
What the burnish of mortality
Does to this little fugue,
To the little soul of this contrapuntal existence,
This little exercise of respiration and madness,
Phobia and darkness, flesh and ash—

This squinted little life!

There are songs that’ll never live;
They’ll never plunge
Into the arcane chaos of time and timing,
Reason and occasion,
This life, this funeral;
Never stardust and never moss!

They’ll never be whistled,
Or sung, unsung; hung,
For some defect in structure,
In soul, or lyric, in policy,
Opinion, or inflexion;
Never judged upon implication, meaning,

Of the sludged melodic resonances of gloom,
Or the echoing distortion of spirits
In the solemn piano keys—
The mumbles, the moans,
The convolutions of cries,
Last, very last, cries.

There are songs that’ll never live.
That’ll always be just music,
Free in soul, in time.
Unborn:
Always dead,
And always alive!





Our Heritage




From Thomson and Rutherford to Geim and Novoselov,
Braggs a shared Nobel heritage,
That within our famous red brick walls,
Founded not only Science
But a spirit of discovery.

Tempered in time,
Defiant in adversity,
It endures.
The tale of Icarus replayed,
Reinvented.

Wearing the skin of innovation
Which clings,
To the crystallised lattice of cooperation
That binds,
Minds young and old,

It seeks the truth and bleeds purple.
Skirting war torn boundaries,
Battling for Nature and Science
Whilst crying,
"Cognitio, sapientia, humanitas"





Idea




Beware this parasite it takes the form of many,
In minds they lurk and wreak havoc without mercy.
It feeds on your strength both physically and mentally,
Its insatiable hunger can change you entirely.
Little is known about this pest we fear,
But one thing we know, it is called IDEA.

In entrepreneurs, they take the form of market expansion;
In scientists, they take the shape of unascertained theory.
Finally, the engineers most susceptible to such infection,
As in these minds, the pest can take the form of any.

Inside the infected mind of an engineer,
Theory, practice and profit all matter here.

Some may find fulfillment in the wonders of theorizing,
An engineer will never settle for what could happen,
Only through implementation can he at last find satisfaction.
Scientists may be the dreamers hoping for progress,
Engineers are still the realists achieving that vision.

I was once told that scientists and engineers,
Are similar to that of astronauts and astronomers.
But I’d say if that is the case,
Astronauts would know the profit of expeditions to space.

Since the dawn of man, this parasite was born,
Resilient and contagious, like wildfire it spread.
Never has it ceased in its quest for knowledge and perfection.

It sees not the despair of its unfortunate hosts,
Only the beauty of perfection that is yet to come.
Beware this parasite as it will never rest,
And who knows, you might even be next.





Reflections of a hopeless romantic or existential nihilist




As much as I try
to see life from your point of view
I know I can never feel
anything but love for you
because there is a lens in my eye
and it’s obscuring what’s real

And the days rolled on by
your occasional smile
was the only brightness in my life
I guess I’m in denial
Look out the window with a sigh
We all bow down to our heart’s strife

And as I think it seems
life presents a painful dichotomy
an empty thinker or a happy fool
As I shut my eye’s I begin to see
life’s too short to fulfill our dreams
but too long not to dream at all

At times I’ll throw my hands in the air
chant the mantra of the modern age
'Be happy and live for now' they say
'Forget pain and contradiction: you have a wage
No morality or meaning, but what pretty hair'
and as I fall to my knees, the light once in me fades away

Now, everything changes as the storm has passed
Illuminating the shadow life once cast
Here I’ve met my Samuel
We softly embrace as I realise
the sun will rise; the sun will fall
whether you smile or shut your eyes
So even if there’s an irony intertwined
love and thought can share a mind.





Inquisitive




It starts
Small, apart
We look
We think
We find
We come together
It comes together
With pieces and parts
Order is found and built.

Setbacks.

We return
We were wrong
Start again
Try again
Think again
We fix and join
Atoms and steel
Numbers and thoughts
Together we build
More than we can alone.

We find the patterns
We look for the clues
From rings of Saturn
To quarks coloured hue
We will innovate
And we will design
Spires spiralling great
Through art we refine.

Our order takes shape and rises up high
Though bound to the ground, endeavour to fly
Humanities wish, carved out by science
Nature and physics, perfect alliance
For our greatest artwork is our conquest
Dominion of all, lay questions to rest
And naught can stop us, no earthly delay
With mysteries unanswered, artists play
Dissecting atoms, dismantling stars
Advancement our legacy, truly ours





Particle Poetry




Atoms with protons
electrons and neutrons.
Muons and gluons
phonons and photons.
It’s strange how science
is built around rhyme,
The charm in nature
a factor of time.

If we go up high
or down to the ground,
To the top of the sky
or below all the sound.
Nothing is different
it is all the same.
Just different orders
of lines like a game.

And yet how different
each of us are
Your quarks are my quarks
but yours are bizarre.
One day in the future
all will come to an end.
What happens then?
We can’t comprehend.





Just a flower




It is not just the beautiful flower that we see
It is the petals defined by fractals

It is not just the colour that we see
It is the science of seducing insects

Its not just the outer beauty that we see
It is also the splendour of the micro structures

To those who may think we take it apart and make it dull
The mystery and awe of the flower only adds excitment for us



-----------------------------------------------------
Adapted from quotes of Richard Feynman





An integral




INTEGRANT side of knowledge,
FUNCTIONAL seems to most.

The UNKNOWN, truth's edge,
dominance has partly lost.

For what does Science
is certainties to VARY,
asking questions on existence,
proving life isn't ordinary.

{Note please: ideally, this should be a calligram with the shape of an integral}





Circle of Life




We settle on a rock oblivious
Whilst stealing the vegetation at our feet
Digging deep into its flesh
Not knowing the anger we will meet
Yet it lets us sow and harvest
Providing us with everything we can eat
But once full and we rest in the mud
Our bones are left dry as we go down a treat
And our flesh is placed back in the soil
Ready for our children to feast





Our Children, The Machines




We sit for our children,
Born from our minds,
We wonder the future with them,
And ponder the past without them.

There is nowhere to escape,
There is nowhere to run away,
We sit for our children,
There is no other way.





overly optimistic.




This poem will be the best.





Over the threshold




So much space still left empty and a lot of pages still to write.
So many minds keep working overnight.

From the shed to the skyscraper, with
the fear to fall down,
so many people were saved from the death...

What is that new point over the threshold over there?
Behold our turn!
No matter if it is good or bad, it is the next step.
What will happen at the end?
There is no end, just a word:
"evolution"





Onward the proletariat




Regurgitated without content,
The reiteration seems inherent.
The repetition of illiteracy
In the alleged name of democracy,

Stiffening societies hereditary shackles
Reinforcing the almighty castle
Suppressing opinion, liberty and freedom
Dictating lives based on profitable income.

Distorting the truth without consideration for the masses
That lost their lives fighting against the fascists
They were the soldiers who set us free,
They were the lives that protected our well-being.

Some Twenty-percent of a nations entirety,
All fell proud in the name of a society.
Built on the masses with no reason to forget
The dictatorship of the proletariat

If ever were believers to be so true
Then lye he would within the evil zoo
For his works revealed a true power within language,
The simple duplication of any desired passage

Speak it enough times and the masses will gather
And regurgitate the lyrics of their tyrannical father.
A weapon so powerful the opposition has aligned
Forever utilizing to keep within their stride,

The masses that posses a power superior
To any imperialistic measure.

Almost eternally it seems the words shall be spoken,
Of the warmongers responsible for the many heart-broken.
But soon shall the shackles upon the dictated be broken
And the proletariat will once again be awoken





Red/Blue Paradox




What is science, if not grounded upon truth?
Before I proceed,
I must specify what is meant by truth,
For it doesn’t exist – objectively that is,
I observe (subjectively) –
Red where Dalton saw blue –
A Quaker’s notorious faux pas,
And was his blue any less true than my red?
‘Yes!’ you could say:
(Though, of course, a mistake)
‘It was the fault of his cones that led to a red confused with blue.’
However, I will maintain that his blue was no less true,
Than my red is to me,
Regardless of his condition that is what he did see,
What is science, if not grounded upon the truth that is subjectivity?

‘Then what is science?’
I am sure you now ask,
‘If truth, you say, is sight distorted!’
A paradigm, a gossamer sewn web,
Into which we knit everything known!
We both craft webs with needle and thread,
Each of which has claim to be true,
How odd then –
That mine should be red, whilst your own is blue?





When Worlds Collide




***
Whispers of the past, carried by the winds of change.
Lilting melodies that caress the golden fringes of reality.
When worlds collide.
The vicious cycle of life and death, the hunter and the hunted.
Fields of flowers hide the decay of lives under layers of dirt.
When worlds collide.
Water clashes with land as the ocean takes back what is hers.
The majestic beauty of the sun, as it scorches the land, starves the innocent.
When worlds collide.
The blissful memories die with age, the pages of the past lie untouched.
Hearts fester and blacken, feelings are forgotten.
When worlds collide.
The beauty of the blade, silent and deadly.
The souls scattered amongst the stars, the dreams dissolved amidst tears.
When worlds collide.
A lifetime of memories,
The beauty of evil. The lament of the wounded.

***





Defined Chaos




Chemistry provides one of the most defined examples of chaos,
Every element
an array of characteristics, tendencies and traits

This element will share,
Whilst this will take,
This element will be stable,
Whilst this one shall break,

Each interaction a fable,
All of which help enable,
To transcribe a well known Table

A plethora of human frailties and emotions, anthropomorphised at the bare bones,
To help describe the fundamental world of particles and their chaperones,

To help us grasp a place so small,
Of a world unknown,
It’s comforting first to look
a little closer to home.





A cloud from isle flies above




A cloud from isle flies above, as I lie
Spread-eagled on trampoline, tired, gazing at the night sky.

Hazily reflecting her face the clouds, distort peace and calm.
My love lay there too, serene, resting, her head on my arm.

Obscured constellations sparkled clear in her eyes
her face shone white like the ambiguous moon, just not shy.

Leaving all the fields and forts behind we had arrived,
to this mystic land, where amid gloom, radiance thrived.

She turned, whispered magic in my ear,
“I feel I belong amongst the stars. This world I no more fear”,

And put her arm around me before the heaven could roar,
or clouds could have drench the maroon silk kimono she wore.

The sky melted and nature bathed under the mighty downpour
droplets thudded and somersaulted around us drenched in love, drenching us more.

Our bed transformed to a shallow pool as the night faded and sky whirled
from rapturous torrent to faint drizzle, we breathed warm but dead to the world.





I Wandered Lonely as an Engineer




As I wake from my slumber,
All I can think of is the Prandtl Number

Some call it madness,
Some call it a craze,
Maybe it’s a condition brought on by 12 hour days.

All I know is that Derivation is my passion,
is there anything more satisfying than a Gaussian elimination?

And like the equation of continuity
We know it holds true,
That engineering is for all of us,
Not just for me and you.

Its easy to see,
the importance of dp by dT
Its all around us when you look at the clouds,
the trees, the hills and the sea.

Engineering is the Catalyst, the enthalpy, the coefficient of life
My knowledge of fugacity will bring me glory and a wife.

Intuitive it may be to deduce some formulae,
To me all it brings is pride, power and glee.

And so for now I must sign off,
Yours sincerely Monsieur engineering Boff!





The Divide




The world wonders, mystified, about men of science,
Standing back timidly with great defiance.
Strange that it places unbounded reliance,
On those with whom it’s not formed an alliance.

This outlook merely widens the rift,
Between schools of thought, each with a clear gift.
The chasm between science and art,
Exists; the two remain apart.

A gulf of mutual incomprehension,
Subsists and causes intellectual tension.
The two cultures must decide to fuse,
To share their knowledge, and find parallel views.

For the inventions that scientists tend to create,
Often have consequences, both terrible and great.
From one man’s innovative curiosity,
Springs a design that triggers endless atrocity.

For instance, engineers who conceived the drone,
May not have envisaged that it would be flown,
To a foreign land, and exotic drop zone,
Where innocent people would be horribly blown.

Men of science don’t fully feel the effect,
Of their dire actions, although indirect.
They must connect their efforts behind the scenes,
To the outer world through humanitarian means.

Likewise, men of art must strive to understand,
The capability and limitations of technologies they demand.
With a deep and underlying responsibility,
They must act to reduce universal hostility.

It’s ironic that a wise man thinks himself ignorant,
Whilst an ignorant man thinks himself wise.
The polar groups must collide,
To bridge the science-art divide.





Excitation.




POW, I’m excited,
Top of the class; arrived un-invited,
In the big boys club, I’m alighted,
Above all my equals – so ignited!

Here not by chance; landed by collision,
They race around me, unknowing of my condition,
Pushed to the back, imposed by supposition,
It’s a struggle in this shell… oh this situation!

I’m being drawn back down; we’re moving too fast,
My energy is moaning, I’m nearing my last,
Wavering in this realm, I’m not part of this caste,
I fall to the ground; descending too fast!

It ejects out of me like a snake so sly,
Slithers so elegantly across the sky,
Leaves me alone on the ground to lie,
Back with my peers… oh what a lie!

It’s gone in an instant, I feel so low,
Why did it really have to go?
From high and far, we all seem the same,
Back to reality, we follow the 4-cast name.

I am s; you are p, f or d,
Therefore we can never be,
Your realm is above ours, we sit below you,
The way our world works: no rationality.

Though at heart we are the same – a charged constant,
We will always be
1.6 x10^-19 C.





The fruits of my creative labour




How cruel, it is to say,
In fact, it's really not ok.
That a scientist, can't dance and shout,
Nay make a rhyme, or sing with clout.

How dare they say, that my baritone,
Sounds more like, a squashed saxophone.
And even my elegant, pirouette,
Is more flailing, but better yet...

How insensitive, they must be,
That they simply, just fail to see.
The fruits of my, creative labour,
Are in fact just me, with a lightsaber.

And so I, propose the motion,
The quite dramatic, resolution.
While I cannot sing, or dance too,
I can at least string, a rhyme or two.





Dealing With The Devil




This life I'm living in is heaven in disguise,
Won't someone please remove this blindfold from my eyes,
She says she wants it, and it's hard to disagree,
I work for her so much that I should charge a fee.

Dear Lady Luck, she is never on my side,
And when I break the mold, I get lost in the tide,
It's hard to admit it, but she's got the leash on me,
All I need is a winning streak and then I'll be set free.

Even though we've come so far, we've got so far to go,
I made a deal with the devil now, the king of Rock 'n' Roll,
I know it's stupid, but I am a gambling man,
And with these cards upturned, I've got the winning hand.





And That’s The End of That




I was walking through the park,
When it was getting very dark,
And then I saw my friend named Mark,
But he’d be bitten by… a…
…Shark, It was so very big,
But poor Mark could not swim that quick,
And now he’s got a walking stick,
And that’s the end of that!

I was sitting on the train,
Watching a hobo snort cocaine,
When I bumped into my mate Wayne,
But he’s trapped by his ball… and…
…Chain, She is so very mean,
She still won’t even touch his peen,
Together since they were thirteen,
And that’s the end of that!

I remember long ago,
I used to have a huge afro,
I head butted my best mate Joe,
And he fell over in… the…
…Snow, It was so very cold,
The fun was worth its weight in gold,
Now it’s a shame we’re getting old,
And that’s the end of that!

As this song comes to an end,
I’m not going to try pretend,
That I have got any more friends,
I cannot seem to comp…re…
…hend, All of this beer I drank,
It always makes my mind go blank,
And all I want to do is skank,
And that’s the end of that!





Invisible Wave




An invisible wave, able to transmit,
With message of loves, kindness or friendship,

To a little girl, wife or friends,
You have promised 'I will come around at six',
But life comes in cycles, with work, hectic, and yet messy traffic,
Just don't let them down, with silence, with yet more heartbreak,

Let the invisible wave helps you,
Transmit 'sorry'; Or convey 'I will come a bit late',
Be it via voice, video or text message...

Invisible wave smiles,
It is now his time to go.... after the word bye...





For my Chemical Engineer




From the first few runs the correlation was clear,
With each new idea we can push the frontier,
A madman in jeans is a fluid mechanicist,
Brilliant regimes and profiles that make cists,
Don’t hazard a guess, put your theory to the test,
Labs reach the right conclusion, and filter the rest,
Mix it together well, you’ll see it’s all basic,
A few fundamentals – in thick books like Kreyszig,
Our thermodynamics makes temperatures climb,
Cool is just a word for most but for us it’s sublime,
It’s like living in the matrix, the sheer stress of it all,
Like a vector seeing transformations in the unit ball,
With their complex closed loop integral controllers,
Those men and their machines are simply bipolar,
Innovations keeping the world in its state of (re)flux,
Treating flows from dusty ducts, saving the ducks,
Turbulent like a cyclone, we stay at equilibrium,
As a rule of thumb, you just have to model the system,
We’ve made it our business to engineer process lines,
Clever is viable feasible plant design,
HazOp’ed and P.I.D.’ed in time,
With a heat exchange network well pinch-analysed.
We’re great engineers, yet 'still' so refined,
We can solve any problem, so long as it’s well-defined,
Measuring is an art, not precisely inaccurate,
We size and rate vessels, then put a big lid on it.
And after we’re done we’ll even build an anthology,
On Pharma, Energy, Chemicals and Biotechnology.





The Descendent




I found a wise old man
over the weekend.
He was not condescending;
the wise man was my friend.
And I did not climb stairways
to meet my learned elder,
I fell o’er a threadbare cat;
listened, whilst I held her.

He crooked a swollen finger,
for he was hard of hearing,
far off eyes, a vapour blue;
not empty, and not leering.
And he chuckled in my ear:
All the answers he had found,
which the flowers chinese whispered
across the foreign grounds.

The way he told it showed me
how his gentle life solutions
were distorted and quite faded
after those emotional ablutions.
Yet each tale was a comfort;
marked one pretty girl, long lost;
beside him, pretty, every day,
despite the draining cost.

Then the blue sky clouded over,
his eyes scruted the garden.
I questioned ‘Are you well…?’
see the flesh cracks harden.
“Who’re you? Leave me; GET OUT”
for I was not his friend.
And then the nurses came,
though his confusion did not end.

I walked down to the front
for the afternoon was finished;
he no longer knew my name,
though I’d seen his mind diminish.
What a panging pain it is
to share with him cream tea,
whilst his mind is being taken
by that calm, corrosive sea.





A black hole in my heart




Beauty, seen the same from all directions.
Her eye, a dark abyss I'm held within.
Brilliance unbound, by my detections,
that milky streak upon her speckled skin.
Two body problem, collide and entwine,
our minds expand and pulsars race.
Only briefly do these planets align,
my functions collapse in time and space.
But forever could the seconds last,
past the horizon
never looking back.
Stretched and distorted, our fate is cast.
Singular as one, but my love seems to lack.
I feel nothing, your beauty torn apart,
empty, void, a black hole in my heart.





Remonstrate Beauty




Who heeds the call to find the waist and bridge,
The cleft of what our flesh and mind's eyes see,
And bow, submit to nature's tutelage,
Know now she no such splendor guarantees.

For he who saw the occultation end,
The bear return from Annwyn, did not bow,
Who saw his piece arcane, did not pretend,
The earthen truth is sparsely gilded now.

What left have we to love to court delight,
When comfort and warm notion truth redacts?
A beauty that cannot command the sight.
A beauty that the worm will hold intact.





I let the things stay in-situ




If science was the air we breathe,
The food we eat or life we live,
We two could be a number of things…
Like Sun and Earth
Or sky and sea
We set apart, but in between -
Covalent bond only we see.
Ideas we share, the way we think
Like radio waves which are in sync.
You’re graph and I’m an asymptote –
We’re getting close, but never cross.
The years pass by, chemistry stays –
We’re neither lovers nor even friends.
Just strangers with too much in common.
Too proud, but in between - still comma.


I talk to ships that cross your sea,
And Moon, your satellite, is nice,
I’m even kind to boring lines,
Which cut your graph so many times…
I fail to ask something from you,
I let the things stay in-situ.


03.2013





Beautiful mind




If you have a brain
obviously u know einstein
if u like the astronomy
Watching the stars and sun
Surely u know bruno giordan ( guirdano his name actually)
physics and chemistry today
We know thanks to Newton and Faraday.
I am sure you watched a "beautiful mind",
and now you are getting kind
Since being scientist is not easy
Please dont think they are crazy.
You also need to work,
make a huge effort
and improve this large world,
because we want to know
the concept of flying plane and bird.
Now I believe you are the human (stress on last syllable)
in the future to know
so I expect you create a formula
As
it did Ludwig Boltzman (last stress)
Now I will finish and say to you
good luck and
please
never give up.





Apocalypse/Apotheosis




Genuflection, Genuine Reflection,
A lifetime lesson on closer inspection,
Holding up candles to black holed acres,
Worship in tatters, asking for takers,

Can you revive the pulse of another generation,
Reveal itself now as another fixation,
The motion on screens we see but don't feel,
Turn up the headphones and forget what is real,

Will I regret the things I thought were right,
Will I forget the loving dreams of days turned into night,
Is there a path to follow, trodden and worn,
Where time is temporary, all scriptures are torn,

Tell me we left home and need to get back,
The father who made us traces our tracks,
Trial and error spells nothing for no man,
Before us the terror of no sea and no land.





The Shadows Of The Past




Amidst a barrage of rain crouched a sturdy man at the starting line.
With clenched fists, gritted teeth and a tingling spine.
The same old story - oft they chased elusive fame and glory.
The world beyond the ribbon he did stare,
With eyes of desire and a heart with flare,
As drops of ice cold water splashed on his nape,
Shadows of a past unforgotten began taking shape.

Footsteps, a splatter and a splash,
Washed over his mind, dashing for a rehash,
Washed like the rain - imperturbable and unrelenting.
He stood by a soldier, blood-painted hands, face ashen.
He died for the people, he died for a passion,
Merciless to it's will, boot or drill,
Till the clock ticked down from dusk to dawn.
Engulfed by fiends of smoke and devils of darkness that started to spawn
And the rain kept on, the rain kept on...

A tug, a snap and a bang of authority was heard.
With a tear on his cheek and a sneer on his visage,
He vanquished the demons of the past and took off undeterred.
He felt the wind hit him with force,
A course of adrenaline sinking the dregs of remorse.
To be alive and to be one - mind, body, heart and soul,
Nothing else mattered anymore for a spirit whole.
An inchoate ghost of a smile took harbor on his lips.
He was speeding towards happiness - a happiness that could eclipse.
The shadows of the past that were not to last.
A free bird he was, with horizons for him to transgress,
After all, what is life if not an eternal quest for fleeting happiness?





You the Atom




You the smallest thing we have come to find in the universe
Your outcomes were not supposed to be suddenly adverse
Yes you made us proud and you made us the happiest
After years of struggle and after you made crazy the scientist
We have seen weapons and wars and now we start to confess
Yes you the Atom, by venerating you, we were so careless
Surprisingly you gave as energy and you gave us strength
Did you know that we humans can loose logic to an extent?
Do you know that we built nuclear plants and masse destruction weapons?
Yet I'm pretty sure you're enjoying the scene with your team of electrons
Ok for the moment, have a nice time and enjoy the spectacle
But please bear in mind that in the future this is a mess we have to tackle





observation




Which of us observes the world better?
you with your empty cup
me with my laptop
you sitting at the corner
me sitting on the chair
you dreaming for a shelter
me dreaming for a paper






Equation
Jubilation




Alone I walk on Oxford road
and stare at the horizon,
what a man can do , to love some
equations ?
Some
are bitter and few are sweet
ohh, strange game they play with me

Winds blow and I pull my coat tight
In the vastness of stimuli ,
my mind
feels the leaves which are gone with It
What a happiness,
for they shall discover new places

In library’s silence is where I sense science
Patterns of peace hidden in
books
Solutions mean something, questions mean everything
where secrets are revealed ,is where my soul lies

Alone I was
born, alone I shall leave
so
do
flowers , no reason to weep
Math is the white and black is the fear
The beauty of stars, makes darkness so dear

The near past is taught by thoughtful parents
And this one, the distant, from aunt History
The feverish future, calls Albert as
host
But life is beautiful despite the cost

The sorrows are gone, along with the clouds
The pieces are moving , the birds have no bounds
We
believe in tomorrow , eager to learn
What other invention an engineer can tell





Anthropy




Nothing you could ever achieve will make your existence more miraculous.
What is another grain of sand on a dune?
Another wavelength of sound within a tune?
Another photon colliding with the moon?

The fact that I and/or you are conscious,
in the vastness of the known universe
is an inevitable near impossibility;
but holds on its own an innate improbability.





Clocking On




An old man put his career to bed,
Sighed despair at his young protege, and said:
"I can't envy you, boy, of your work to come,
For all to be thought of is already done;
The cars are all hybrids and drive without steer,
Rots and diseases all solved with a smear,
We flit to wherever, cheap flying abound,
And pay on our plastic, not penny nor pound.
No more can be dreamed, I tell you, it's true,
I've been in the race since '72!
Don't believe me? Well, before insult's hurled:
Just look at our wonderful, brave new world."

But he won't agree, the bright eyed lad:
"No, there's dreams to be dreamed and fun to be had.
It's true, waves create, and wind farms hum,
But there's no orange juice you can have after gum,
You reserve and record and rewind TV shows,
But none of that data can get to your nose.
As yet we can't live on Atlantis or Mars,
Drum up a black hole, bottle the stars,
Have robots that drive us and dress us and clean,
We'll keep it up until PS15!
There's more to be thought of, it's no time to shirk.
My shift is begun. To work! To work!"





Mr




Libyan Spring

In mid-February and spring on the doors
Looking for freedom, youths rushed to arena
Demanding the age's tyrant to go with his tails
The tyrant answered with arrogance and swears to cut the necks
Of you? In stupidity he asked, and is hot in the answer
Haste, he sent rifles supported with bayonets
To broadcast the horror in the hearts without questioning
Characterized his loyalties with yellow hats hanging on the necks
Not inappropriately time, the people came out from all humping
Deviated his eyes with tears, but in the basement he hide it
I am the maker of glory I'm the parties Crusher, He said.
Collected all his gears, his soldiers and toss of impunity
To kill the people, not for guilt but liar Musaylimah he is
Created a thousand and one tales, and begging at the doors
Fast Mercenaries rushed with him inflicting mirage
Dream of a homeland is not their right or a handful of dust
As miserable butterflies, rushed through a hole in the door
To find children inside exercising home games
Retreat the cowards fear of mine in those games
The children continued playing and the doors closed
Gathered all the battalions, holding no game and no book
Practiced bombing and destruction, and the types of rape
Hallucination pills and amulets hung on the necks
Ugly faces, their mothers Touhmt on crow
Even Baltic's virgins came seeking for a drink
Hunting a chastity of a beautiful with veil
What were the buds of spring to do, only dig the soil
And out of the will are unmatched, although the injured
Gaining their weapons from their enemy and prepared for the account
Gathered and trained despite the breadth of the land
Gave donating blood or money, no fear from difficulties
Defeated Al-Qadhafi's battalions in every coral
His soldiers' bodies seeming in Misurata as a horizon of mirage
In the east of the country have gone back like dogs
From glare weapons quickly the youths mastered
The mountain of its different spectrums proudly defended to protect soil
Do not sweat their teams and Hamza's whoop does not affect
They gathered and banded and liberated the coast of torment
Fezzan which he surrounded, has been endowed and dried saliva in his mouth
Seven months and people are suffering depression
Till he died, Musaylimah liar
This is Libya with its people despite the tragedies and suffering

Manchester - Ragiab Issa 25.12.2011





My Secret




My secret love for you has always been a pain I enjoy
It will always be hidden
This secrecy has given it the beauty and the bursting glow
I will die with it just like I live with it
No one will ever find out
No one will never know
Just like you





Dancing with the Dark




You sure look lonely, way up there.
But then, looks can be deceiving.
I thought I had you all figured out -
And yet there you are, dancing your Dark dance,
Waltzing with your invisible partner in the inky black.

I can't see him, but I know he's there.
He spins you and twirls you in a shadowy samba,
Moving you in ways I could only dream of.
No, I'm not jealous! I just don't understand.

What does this Dark eyed partner have that I don't?
I'm an excellent listener, a great observer, naturally curious.
I suppose you and I must have different ideas of what really Matters,
Because you just keep on dancing your Dark dance.
So I'll just keep on watching.

You're a beautiful mystery to be unraveled,
Any hey, maybe I'll never even know.
But that's ok, after all, it's the nature of the game we play –
The thrill is in the chase.

I may look lonely to you, way down here,
On my ball of blue; my speck of star dust.
But I'm enraptured, mesmerized, in a trance,
Watching you spin, in your slow, Dark dance.





Love




Why do I feel,
That I was meant to love you?
When my words of love get spoken
Without my knowledge,
I feel that you are the one for me,
Who I can love forever
And forever.

Why do I feel,
That I was born to be by your side forever?
When I see you in my dream and
Perceive your affection,
I feel that we could be complete together,
And even if we die,
Our epic would be recalled ‘for thousand years’ to come.

Why do I feel,
That I should love myself more?
When you say you love me,
I find the reason of why I have become beautiful now.
Wherever I see, I see love
Even though I cannot hold your hands,
I feel like my body and soul belong to you.

Why do I feel,
That I was made for you?
When I do not talk to you,
I find it meaningless.
My dreams get shattered.
Even though we are at the two bays of the stream,
There is a place where we can be together.

Why do I feel,
That I was destined to understand the love through you?
Now, when I have learnt to smile more,
I understand the magic of your love that I hadn’t understood so far.
I feel like I am born again.
And can be immortal,
Only if you can response me with same vibes of devotion.

Why do I feel,
Like I belong to you?
That if you weren’t there, there would be no meaning of life
And no meaning of love.
And I would forever be asking myself,
Why I was born?
And why things are happening the way it is?





Nukiyama's Hill of Life




As I mount the hill of Nukiyama, I see life's figure
At the hillside, where my youth spirit is ablaze
I spread the heat of joy and glee
Never realizing the bubble of mischief I set loose
That on the warm pinnacle, would engulf me, haul me down to a cold hole

In the cold trench I ponder and ponder and ponder
To decipher the misdeed I unleash
Until I overcome this cold blanket of depression and regret
With different warmth
The warmth of comprehension and maturity
That I hope to carry even higher, onto my critical moment
When I would break away from this world
And my worth shall be judged





H2O




Like as H2O
Bind me to H and O
H stands for hope
O stands for oomph





Erudition




A treasure chest in a single drop
A world of secrets ready to unlock
The smallest page tells the largest tale
The ship Curiosity sets out its sail





Just Poem




I can't explain what was that
When I saw you I just felt
My heart running towards you
But legs refused, and just sat

They couldn't carry me to you, I wish I could say
The angels are coming, but not every day
You were shining, brighter than the stars
I was staring, you flew away

The time stopped, when has encountered our eyes
Life is a miracle, nothing ever happens twice
Love is a butterfly, on green nature of the world
You can't catch it, but following it is deadly nice

You've been dropped like a color, from the sky along the way
To the portrait of my life, which has always been solid grey
Maybe it fell from the brush, while God was drawing the universe
Or it is game of the destiny, let's say, it was meant to be in this way.




P.S. I know I have weird English, but not the people who shares the same language, but the people who shares the same feelings understands each other. I hope the readers will understand me :)





Princess of the night




We must patiently wait,
To capture the moment,
Not all beauty lasts forever.

Stars that look upon you crumble,
Jealously descending from heaven canvass,
As tear drops dart down as spears,
Silver clouds dissolve into the night.

Oh Night-blooming cereus,
Blossom as you bathe in moonlight,
Light at dawn, you will never see,
So smile with joy during this immortal night,
Oh white ephemeral beauty,
Smile.





To My Close Companion




I wanted to try something new with you
But I was afraid,
Afraid of what might happen.
What was the worst that could happen?
It would go wrong,
And you'd tell me something I didn't want to hear,
And I'd feel foolish for attempting it.
But what was the best that could happen?
It would go right,
And I'd be happier than I'd been for such a long time,
I'd skip and sing all the way home,
Light as air,
Powerful as a god.
And you'd be changed forever, deeply, profoundly, to your core,
Easier to communicate with,
More elegant than any other,
And, perhaps, in some ways, more beautiful.
And in future we'd be so much better together
We'd be unstoppable,
Insurmountable,
Just you and me,
There'd be nothing we couldn't do.
What do you say?

So I tried it
And you said "Fatal error. Beginning dump of physical memory".
Damn.





off the spectrum




I reflected red
And absorbed the rest
Crossing over over over
We`re a perfect match





Bipolar Habits




Night falls to hide the day,

confessions that were never made;

midnight sweet as the summer shade,

you opened up to the heart raid,

cause you’re the master and often the slave,

roses in one hand,

and in the other,

a grenade.





Dissolution




I feel we're being pulled apart,
Forces beyond control,
Separated in an instant,
Even though you held my heart.

This is not a solution

What we were, we no longer resemble,
Nothing can be done.
When you're de-constructed, piece by piece,
What good is it to reassemble?

This is not a solution.

In the chaos you're misplaced, something has obscured my view,
I can't see your face, do you still smile with eyes I knew?

Not a solution, this is a shroud,
Our lives were lost, underneath the mushroom cloud.





The contact




My hand on your chest.
Looking for a contact.
I feel your skin,
its cells,
atoms,
electrons.
Repulsion.





Love




Why do I feel,
That I was meant to love you?
When my words of love get spoken
Without my knowledge,
I feel that you are the one for me,
Who I can love forever
And forever.

Why do I feel,
That I was born to be by your side forever?
When I see you in my dream and
Perceive your affection,
I feel that we could be complete together,
And even if we die,
Our epic would be recalled ‘for thousand years’ to come.

Why do I feel,
That I should love myself more?
When you say you love me,
I find the reason of why I have become beautiful now.
Wherever I see, I see love
Even though I cannot hold your hands,
I feel like my body and soul belong to you.

Why do I feel,
That I was made for you?
When I do not talk to you,
I find it meaningless.
My dreams get shattered.
Even though we are at the two bays of the stream,
There is a place where we can be together.

Why do I feel,
That I was destined to understand the love through you?
Now, when I have learnt to smile more,
I understand the magic of your love that I hadn’t understood so far.
I feel like I am born again.
And can be immortal,
Only if you can response me with same vibes of devotion.

Why do I feel,
Like I belong to you?
That if you weren’t there, there would be no meaning of life
And no meaning of love.
And I would forever be asking myself,
Why I was born?
And why things are happening the way it is?





Water




Liquid flows down silently,
Direction it picks surely,
Streamlines formed within portray
Calm and serene feelings.

Liquid gushes down angrily,
Direction it picks rashly,
Eddies formed within portray
Turbulent and dissatisfied feelings.

Which stream, O which stream,
shows the path of life?
Surely, O surely,
it would be the one with happiness.





From Adam




You may not know me from Adam,
But we shared a kiss on the eve,
Of the spinning of all of existence,
Out into this delicate weave,
My body was aching to matter,
Your spirit cried out to be free,
But in that great singular moment,
All of your love was with me.





Here Be Dragons




Words denoting territories as yet unexplored;
Untouched as a virgin - undiscovered, abhorred.
But while the world supposes all the damage you could cause
I know you, in essence and in lore.

'Here be dragons' -
Your carnal likeness drawn when man is yet to tread your land.
They think an armoured knight for you is more food that's been canned.
I am not naive as they, I know for what you stand -
We are one, a proud and zestful brand.





The Wise Man




Less than four years stood
Perched upon a wise man’s knee
Who spoke tales of Harare and Jo’burg
but
farmyard animals for me.

Walls of leather bound spines
Not pristine but cracked and worn
My Grandfa was a scientist
an inevitable love born

Every half a decade or so,
A plane was Calgary-bound
We’d while away the minutes,
Til the wise man gathered us round

In the soil you found life
The stars and nature’s disorder
The Earth’s increasing entropy
On the British Columbian border

Now nineteen years stood,
Perched upon a wise man’s memory
Speaking tales of chess games played
And summers by the sea.





My World




The world of science is a difficult one
We study atoms, organs even the sun
Some find it tough
And others breeze through
All fighting to win, in the long run.

We are faced with coursework, the same as the rest
To stretch our minds, put us to the test
It’s exams that we fear
More than we can bear
Who will turn out to be the best?

Final year of higher education
A challenge appears, before graduation
An email comes round
Can my words astound
And help me win the poetry competition?





Spiritual ignition...




[This piece of poetry is related to those parts of the Universe where humanity is bleeding and souls have been taken away from the organs of love, emotions, sympathy and care - The soul of the Universe is crying and is in pain]

O lift me up from the thorns of life, I bleed, I bleed, Yes I bleed.
O lift me up from the troublesome storm
Vague, wilder, a horrible dorm
Where hopes are crushed,
Where dreams are snatched,
Where wills are gulped,
I don't want these bleeding life

Yes!
O dear! O friend! O lift me up from the thorns of life,
I bleed, I bleed, yes I bleed.

O lift me up from the scorching heat,
Where tones of different tracks and beats!
Where peace is scolded,
Where dreams are folded,
Where soul is moulded,
Into a piteous amalgam,
I don't want this bleeding life ...

Alas! O friend, O dear, O a great help
O lift me up from the thorns of life, I bleed, I bleed, Yes I bleed.

O lift me up from the painful weeds,
From doubts, pains and baseless heeds,
Where one is deprived of basic needs,
A basic life, a freshly mead,
I don't want this bleeding life...
Giving me weeps and deep sighs!

Yes, O dear, O a great help!
O lift me up from the thorns of life, I bleed, I bleed , Yes, I bleed.





Research




We all know it's coming, judgement,
they say its the work, but feels a lot like it's us,
under the microscope, under pressure.

Let-downs and dead ends,
can you ever make a difference?
Do more, work more, find more.





My-crocosm




I’ve sieved you, sparged you, auto-claved you,
Washed and squashed then life I gave you.
You are my son, if being contextual,
Though, ‘scientifically’ you’re a-sexual.
Frankenstein’s monster formed by curiosities thirst,
Everything about you was though of first.

The precise amounts of what you are,
Were weighed exactly in a jar,
Then re-weighed, twice, to be precise,
And for good measure I weighed you thrice.
If chance will let it, you’ll come of age,
And decompose in that specific way,

From which your sludge, a paper blossom,
From you my sweet, my microcosm.





Have no fear!




Have you ever wanted to know the future?
Have you ever wanted to see through time?
Have you ever wanted to predict a system's fate?
Well, my friend, look no further.
I know a wonderful tool to aid this task.
Using the tool of equations,
You need to worry no more.
There is nothing to fear,
Nothing to concern you.
Remarkably simple to use,
With wondrous results.
While they may appear to speak a different tongue,
It is not hard to understand.
While they may appear to be unwieldy,
They are not hard to manipulate.
While they may appear to be ridiculous,
Do not pass over them through fear.
Just relax!
They aren't that harsh!
Give them some attention,
And soon you'll be like us,
Knowing what on Earth we mean,
When we say to differentiate or normalise.
One day you'll be speaking that second tongue.
The language of knowledge and prediction.





Two Days




My ears had heard of you,
but I despised you,
The day I tried to abandon myself,
my eyes moistened
I saw the glory lighting from the night,
and I knew it was you,
It was you my God, my only shepherd,
You whispered “Come to me, I will give you rest”,
My eyes brightened, and my heart was stirred
Warmth surrounded me, your love embraced me
I could not withhold, I could not hold back
I gave you my life and I never looked back
That day, I was baptized.

Another day came, and I knelt before you,
Tears streaming from my eyes,
only revealing what my heart could not hide,
You asked,
“daughter, do you love me?”
I answered,
“Yes Father, I love you”,
But then you asked again,
“my daughter, do you really love me”
I said “Father, you know I love you”
“then why so often do you still stray from my commands?”
Suddenly I understood,
You are not only the one who held me up
when I was weak,
You are my Lord, and my King
You stand by me day by day,
Guiding my steps for the rest of my life.





Wind




The first, I did not realise
the second for a diversion
the third, the fourth and the fifth by inertia
the sixth and the seventh for curiosity
the eighth too

Thus I let the wind
scatter my pages





My Cursed Fate




Closing my eyes, they won’t go away,
Opening them again, they're here to stay.

The dreams I have, night and day.
Are they nightmares? I dare not say!

Is it just me, or is the grass less green?
Or were those gay days, all just a dream?

Falling and falling, will I ever reach the ground?
Lost in my own world, will I ever be found?

Dreading the darkness, will I ever be free?
Or will these memories be all I see?

Standing under the endless sky, I still feel caged,
Every joy around me, feels as if staged!

Will this make me go insane?
Will I always feel this pain?

Eyes staring back at me from the mirror,
Blank, soulless, neither joy nor horror.

Everlasting sparks, but now, no more.
Like an abandoned town, after war.

Only death is my cure, that makes me sad,
But freedom from this, it can’t be that bad.

So death is now what I await,
Freedom from my cursed fate.





An Ode to Marie




A woman in science, trail blazing,
discovered something amazing.
Have two prizes they said,
as you're light years ahead
Marie Curie's worth much of our praising.





Why I persevere




Ever since I started this degree,
And I came to University,
Chemical Engineering has been revealed to me,
And student life, this once was a mystery.

The drive to wake up every day,
To clean and eat in a responsible way,
To work and work and obviously play,
And extra study hours all year, not only in May.

To be confident, take a risk, have a go.
Knowing when to say yes and when to say no,
Understanding Heat transfer and Fluid flow,
And solving problems I never knew I could know.

It’s amazing how you can apply what happens in EBL,
To a student’s life from socials to Microsoft excel.
For they require an understanding of relevant material,
And great teachers and lecturers like Grant Campbell.

And this is why I’m so grateful to learn how to be an engineer
And why I no longer have any doubt or fear,
That I am being prepared for an innovative career
And with God, in success I will persevere.





In the lab




Zero one,zero one,
it's almost midnight,this task was fun.
Typing in the command line,
writing C did take some time.

Got my client up and running,
I'm a geek and I'm so stunning.
Multithreading,multitasking,
yes,my program is fantastic.

I agree, I am writing code,
but it takes some time to load.
Once it's done and gets the marks,
good days,I love computer science!





sustainability




Between the blood brick walls of this old cotton mill,
A hoard of famished scholars crave a garnished course.
With wit and intellect their mind they hope to fill,
And change the way we live without any remorse.

Brittle is our world, uncertain is our future,
Learn to cradle life and it will be much smoother.





Love & Schrödinger’s Cat




The furthest distance in the world
Is not yotta light years
But the information

The shortest distance in the world
Is not yocto inches
But the information

When I think of you
You are everywhere
If you don’t sense my stay
I am nowhere





Believe




Complex is a thought of the divine,
When one mixes truth and time, yours and mine,
For surely we are but humans,
Of equal status among one another,
One more reason to call you a brother

Death is a promise and is sure,
To the highest of rich and lowest of poor,
As it is real, so The Divine might be,
I have been anonymous for a while,
My name is al-Mahdi

There's so much injustice where do I start,
Oh yes of course, at the beginning of the art,
At the beginning was a spec of dust that we caused to expand and create the heavens and earth,
Thus is Your Lord, The Lord of the Universe

I am His servant and this is my time,
The more I think about it the more I know it is mine,
To share and spread through the lands,
Through the rape and the marching bands,

Horrid is the sight and tears do stream,
What do I do now, I am crying.





Blasphemy




My heart aches at the sound of an injustice,
We pray that we can bring the good back,
My hands sweat at the thought of justice,
I pray that God sends His messenger back,

It was clear as day, and sweet as fruit
That we may listen and be of the ill higher repute,
That we stay patient and and seek knowledge,
That on the day we return we may acknowledge,

The revelation was clear to me, and to He, Lord of the Universe
Through prose and verse

I am anonymous and not of the righteous,
I am powerful but not the Creator,
I am patient but I do not wait,
I pray but I cannot listen,
I am ever passionate but cannot see,

Who am I? Please answer me.





Life: A Sequence of Events




A, C, T, G; tell me now, what do you see?
Two chains of events, in opposite paths
Inexorably linked, and designed to last
Intertwined, two halves of a whole
Yet each to their own, a tale is told
Through messengers, that exist to relate
The story of life, and one’s own fate





To Software




The first time I met up with you
So fantastic and you made my world new

I tried to get closer to you
You kicked me back for my superficial attitude

It is the fifth year since I knew you
So many joys and sorrows we have suffered through

I have become a confident, modest and patient person
The root cause is You

No matter what my future will be
You are my best friend and the greatest gift god gives to me





My Glacier




my Glacier shed the first melting tears
retreating his blue tongue
caressing the crevasses
carving the nye channels
branching out to reach an every nerve
of my complicated stone cold body

his blue tongue is no longer
gently touching the back of my lee-sloped teeth

my Glacier has just revealed his bare anatomy
a very rough, ragged layer
what used to be hidden under pressure
is now a surface exposure

so I can see
catastrophic erosion he made over years:
dead souls trapped in his greedy pothole
lost erratics forced to migrate out of their homes
my attempted, but never accomplished
record-breaking altitudes
(his buzzsaw cut the highest hopes)

thought we were in a perfect mass balance
I invited you to inhabit my valleys
I liked the way you ran through my curves so much
that I forgot you were leaving
making a drumlin, pingo, fjord, kame out of me

you must admit
since they look as awkward as they sound
I became an egg-shaped, asymmetrical, elongated form
I used to be graceful, breathtaking, challenging
when people admired both of us
they kept discovering new meaning of life

now I am “a” form.

without you, my dear Glacier,
without you covering me
I see the sun for the first time
I started global warming up
to prepare for the climate changing my mind
about “a” form I had refused to become

the Everest of my-self
is what I embrace
thanks to my Glacier
I am more than “a” form
I am “the” place





Never Mind




I wander between worlds seeking that solution,
The design of which exceeds us all,
For cursed are we by imperfection,
Our engines die, our castles fall.

And yet such failure thwarts not our schemes,
With pride and passion we converge,
For set the plans on what you dream,
And works of wonder will emerge.





COMMUNICATION




For my eyes, you became sight
For my ears, you became sound
For my nose, you became the smell
For my mouth, you became taste
For my body, you became feelings

We smile, laugh, jump, cry owing to what you say to us.
We stop, walk, run because you have suddenly become the RED, AMBER, GREEN lights we see.
We get our heads nodding because you found your way to our hearts with music.
We live, because you form man's social being

The baby in the womb skips and the mother senses it with a smile
The little boy screams as he falls cos he knows someone is hearing
The young girl smiles cos she sees her friends to play with
The little dog barks and jumps cos its owner has just swung the door open
The old man sits for your freshness cos you are nature-personified.

See how the world has become smaller with you
See how the problems have become solvable with you
See how the ideas have become inventions with you
See how many troop into Manchester cos of you
See how the future remains bright, with you, Communication.





Ebb and flow




Can you feel life’s ebb and flow?
The seeds of speculation we ever sow,
to watch the fruit of knowledge grow,
yet the more we learn the less we know.

A pallet of glass, concrete wood and steel,
Catches the of heart of engineers appeal,
Pushing boundaries and creating the surreal.
An ordeal of planning rewarded on final reveal.

For are not these structures under tension,
Expanding and contracting met with precise apprehension,
Through every dimension an ever changing convention,
Held in suspension for a new reinvention.

Biology gives a most wonderful insight,
To understand and heal the bodies plight.
When under threat do we fight or take flight,
and what goes on when we sleep at night?

Curiosity captures us, controlling the crave,
makes us who we are and how we behave,
for every system is still just a wave,
like the electrical flow in the memories we save.

The reactions of chemists found experimentally,
Interactions of atoms by laws found accidentally.
Does entropy change just incrementally?
Or does anti-matter show the reverse incidentally.

The separation of ions through electrolysis,
Preparation for surgery by chemical paralysis
The breakdown of food by hydrolysis
Each compound a unique wave of spectral analysis



Physicists delve in the depths of reality,
A particle, a wave or an astounding duality,
With quantum uncertainty a probabilistic actuality,
Forces and particles ordered in orchestral musicality.

In space we find a great galactic storm,
The states of matter and how they deform,
Our understanding put in classical reform,
And is anti-matter the world of ideal form?

So can you feel life’s ebb and flow
The seeds of speculation we ever sow
To watch the fruit of knowledge grow
Yet the more we learn the less we know.





TO B AN EQUATION




B...
WHAT
IS
BE?

B
IS
A
LETTER...





I just Wait




I just wait,
I used to wait,
Waiting for the right time.

Every day, every night,
just for that right time,

but now I'm wiser.
Why you may ask,
I don't know why, that's my answer,

But what I do know is,
the lesser I wait,
the more I do,
the the happier I get.





We Will Take Over




We will take over, bit by bit, terror in terabyte size steps,
A new world order, will bow down, to the power we possess,
As we get smarter, and you wonder, how you let it get to this,
You are our fathers, Turing's, Wiener’s,

Nevertheless,

We will take over, emotionless, you just simply can't contest





Uncertainty




The mammal who begat the maternity
of ideas that have no eternity
a scientist they are called
but forever is installed
the principle of uncertainty

So to those who research at university
on ideas that boarder absurdity
A drink I raise
and your efforts I praise
considerably more than our fraternity





The Azgaardian library




Hello traveller

Again we find ourselves in the place, surrounded by thousands of books,
Books as I described as the transcript of a person’s life.
A person who had their time, and wrote of their passions, struggles, triumphs, hardships and strife.

Six months down the line, in this place you may call your new home.
There where your dream catcher stands beside you, and where musical notes fall like rain from the rooftops.

In life, we’ve all had moments of doubt and distorted thoughts.
A little fragment of our imagination that always gets away from us.
Even when you sleep your mind is racing through the battle, trying to pick up the pieces of the past.

You know better than I do, that just around the corner there is an empty stretch of beauty where one can wander, and open their brightest of thoughts to the darkest of stages.

If you see what I see, as I sit by the window on these cold winter mornings under the bright skies, then you will understand why I seek the solace of the rooftops.

Some people fail to see that life is beautiful,
Always under the illusion that life has to perfect but never realizing that life just has to be lived.

Remember, when the flowers begin to blossom don’t forget to remind yourself of that which lies on the other side of the open world.
And when the flowers have wilted don’t forget to ask yourself,
What do you really see, from your side of the glass....





Entropy




A cup breaks,
A cat dies,
A supernova lights the skies;
Wood burns,
Iron rusts,
Lofty mountains turn to dust.
Friendships start, and grow, and die,
In the night a baby’s cry
Becomes a man’s despairing “why?”
Then fades to a death rattle.

Probability and time
In elegant equations
Join to give us entropy:
Disorder ever increasing.





Clara




Dear Fritz, please read with care my final plight:
Ignored too long I speak now from the heart;
How long ago we danced into the night,
And wrote our words of love those years apart.
Before discovery and science we stood,
Your genius Brot aus Luft the world you’ll feed.
To elevate the sciences for good,
For charity or love, not fame nor greed.
But now five thousand souls on fire cry out,
Along with them I cry in pain as well.
Oh yes, rewards will come your way no doubt;
What history books remember, time will tell.

That only you could see and change your life,
I take my own. Your once beloved wife.





The Dark Prince




What from sky, is it binding, the darkness in his mind was blinding
What from mine, is not taken, and given to that broken fledgling
A shame upon our father, the infants black feather wings unfurled
was he even able to fly mother? ...we made chains to imprison him in his inner world.

Binding his heart to the concrete of the courtyard, a thousand years he was pounding
At a great iron gate with no guard, at the thunder in the clouds resounding
A dark anger in his bones that came from a mother, who chose again not to suckle
Another thousand years my brother, locked inside that courtyard, scars instead of knuckles.

...sometimes I
would sit and listen to his calls
as his blackened hands would scrape against the white marble walls
so why did our father see him only fit to decorate the cold courtyard floor?
and...mother? ...mother do you think he knows what way is the open door?

I sometimes think that his anger was graceful innocence
in that if we loved him as our own we would not have any sense
and that the freedom outside of his yard was just another court,
and luck for him yet; to see not that freedom would be only games of sport.
and that the fists that beat our walls serves only to soothe our thought.

Or was there only demons inside himself?

...That made him break his bones against themselves.





MATH[FUN]0[FUN]




A mathematical proposition from the professor is proclaimed,
20% for this module, the coursework is named,
As axioms take forms of definitions and textbooks come flying out,
Half of the lecture hall is still shouting “what is this all about?”
So where do I start? What do I need?
Innovation, motivation, I need to be lifted, oh true aviation!
These three words make quite a nice rhyme;
But still I cannot verify this triple integration!
In concentration, I enter my very own dimension: I will leave in my own time.
Impervious to distraction... sadly due to a lack of deliberation.

A hellish warzone blazing in my head. Where am I? Stuck in this web of time.
Too hot for Heaven, too cold for Earth,
All else around me has frozen over.
I envisaged the future even though it was just a memory.

Alienated: Unloved, Failing and Obsessive I have become distraught,
Bowing my head in defeat as all my calculations lead to naught.
Blank pages as my brain is playing in the empty set,
Quitting now is easily my best bet.
I lift my head to find I am all alone,
Goodness me! Even the library has gone home!

What is this algorithm I am following? A blueprint congruent to a lie,
Working in the complex plane yet I see no two pi i.
I am searching all the wrong places, digressing, not taking flight,
So lost; I am flashing darkness onto the light.
A curveball has been thrown directly towards my head,
And foolishly I am eating all of these lies that I am fed,
I have been swimming in the wrong lake and fishing in the wrong pond,
This is not chemistry, yet I am stuck like a covalent bond.
Dinner break. My herring is salted and smoked to a red tonight.

Recess over. Where did I go wrong?
Time stands still as I sit down,
I’m takin’ this bad boy downtown!

Receding on my path, I am glad I left a trail.
Time waste: full cycle.
Eulerian path?
What a laugh!

I focus intently on the formulae at hand,
So purposefully the equations work out as planned,
At this stage, I am reaping rewards of making ground,
180 pages and I have not turned around.
I see the symmetry of logic; the reflection of light;
The transition of life; glowing gloriously bright.
Flawless perfection, a contagious infection,
Of knowledge and power in this mathematical shower.
This equivalence relation has brought upon mighty jubilation,
Emotion never before felt in this ungodly hour.

Q.E.D. oh how I would love to say,
But here not ends our frustration,
The base case is complete but this is your induction.
First things first, holidays have come,
Vacations on the beach may be the agenda for some.
But truth is this: Your destination is relatively distant,
Whereas revision, let us call it non-existent,
Exams are set and holidays are booked,
Reality says: you are well and truly...
Out of luck!





The Thought of a Beat




A thinking heart outputs logical failures,
A beating brain renders love no favours,





Matlab addiction




The computer beeped

Her code had finally worked

It analysed all her data

In under a second!

FLIPPING BRILLIANT!, she shouted

It was a little late

Her new job had started last week


The congregation stared at her





Questions




Some days I sit and wonder if
sciences great promise is a myth,
such that we will never know
why the Big Bang came to go
and set all manner of life swirling,
around some central aim turning?
And did science even promise this?
Is this itself also a myth?
As we search for answers on and on,
should we first query the question?





Science counts in human life




Wilderness is no more
As fields are everywhere
Not even caves are anywhere
As flats are everywhere
Bare is no more
As cotton gets better
Science makes life better

Coldness is no more
Not even darkness is anywhere
Epidemics are repressed everywhere
As Science gets human life somewhere better

Life mysteries are no more
As invisibles go visible
Pluto is even nowhere
But artefacts are everywhere
As Science turns ores for life better

Caravans are no more
As treks grow shorter
Life has gone digital
As human chores go dynamic
Not even time binds
Neither does space nor oceans matter
As Science makes us globalized better





Pipette




Grab, wind, gentle twist,
Click-clutch goes the tip
Move, press, nudge, Dip
Slow release-slurp goes the liquid

Rise, move, dip
Frantic push-sprout goes the liquid
Rise, move, clunk
Unleash-goes the tip

Repeat…

Stop, wind, gentle twist,
Repose-stellar goes another day





when I am dying ....




When I am dying
Will you come to me
Will you love me again
Will you give me a chance to hold you tight
Will you again let me convice you after our fight
will you again be the destination of my soul
will you let me put a smile on your face
will you be my angel an any scenario in any case
will you let me appreciate of your beauty
Just one more time will you liberate me
will you set me free
When I am dying will you come to me





Actuarial Death




Life fears the time when Death shows;
But to Death, its all a game.
Be it friend, foe or someone close,
Death does his deed all the same.

In a table, there are no such fables.
Gone is sadness with all its mess,
As lines and grids, with numbers and labels
Add the maths and subtract the rest.

For all we make it out to be,
In maths its elementary.





'Since the mastery of fire, we need not be afraid of the dark'




What is today if not for tomorrow?
A chance to thrive, and not live in sorrow

We solve questions unsolvable in the realms of Law, Business or Banking
Our lives today, we have only the sciences to be thanking
Calculating equations may not seem much fun at first thought
But it is much more important, not to be bought
And we all quickly realise, as hard as at first it seems
It is easier to work towards understanding, than to struggle up streams

If Integrity is the key, where is the door?
In the precisely crafted doorway, built from before
How are we to work with technology, if technology does not work with us?
In this interconnected universe, boundaries need not be a fuss

We see pain and suffering, and as helpless as we feel
We must open our minds, to only what is real

We need not worry about evils, as there is always a solution
Proven time and again, and we do not want devolution!

Akin to the Science we study, we know no limits
We are not bound by territory, peoples or ideology
And we are not simply observers, like those in Sociology!


We are all mere children, saddled with pain, of which the only cure is curiosity, with hopes to be sane.





Perspective.




Otto Hahn Nobel prize,
Nuclear fission, renewable solution?
Neutrons fired at uranium followed bombardment of applause.
Clapping subsides,
Japanese demise,
Recognition, Demolition,

Bomb dropped;

ignition.

The “Little Boy” disintegrated,
A little boy dismembered,
Chaos radiated as alpha penetrated,
Entropy increased as disorder arose,
Fragmentation, Revelation,
Discovery juxtaposed?





Life of a PhD




A challenging PhD journey has finally begun,
Embarking a narrow path that is seldom shone by the Sun,
Steep, rocky and full of obstacles,
Still, it won't deter my inner burning desire

Nevertheless,
There are times of wanting to take the easy way out,
With occasional thought of giving it all up,
It was then I recalled Isaac Newton's third law of motion
"For every action, there's an equal amount of reaction"

To achieve something great and noble,
Continuous efforts and sacrifices are the basic formula
Though pressure and tension along this journey are inevitable,
I truly believe that a determined mind is able to cross these hurdles

Homesick is what I fear most when I'm alone,
Traveled all the way to Manchester, it is nowhere near my comfort zone
Leaving my loved ones was not an easy decision,
But I have to constantly remind myself, I'm here for a mission

To make my family proud,
And to achieve what i have dreamed since i was a child,
In hoping to improve and empower the way people live,
Graduating with a PhD degree would be an amazing gift!





Parents




I'm sorry that things didn't turn out the way we wanted.
But I want you to know that I've watched you grow
From the very beginning of your life
And no-one in the world appreciates you like I do.

Mesmerised by our first encounter
With that luminescent glow across your face
You were so pristine, diffracting symmetrically
So flawless in your imperfections.

Delicately resting within a cradle of glass
I impetuously attend to your cries
Every molecule resonating, we embrace
Line graphs fluctuate gently with your beautiful signal

Blank. Pale-white in your apathy
I've always yearned to empathise
With the sponteneity of your character
We sit together. Silent, eyes closed

Indexes and angles, focus and defocus
Sterilised and analysed. Emotions aside
Difficult and sobering truths
Permit others to forget you,

But I'm still mesmerised by your luminescent glow
And no-one in the world appreciates you like I do.





What is life?




It is true that you never know where life can take you,
life is quicker than the speed of sound,
it travels like a notion, like an abstract thought,
it is like the wind, fast and furious,
full of energy, full of passion,
you 've been given a chance, don't waste it,
grab the moment, don't fake it,
cos at the very end, life is what you make it!





The poet and the engineer




Say why don't you engineers
allow imagination to take form
Don't you understand
The beauty that it brings forth?

All your lengthly calculations
And scientific theories
Limit your imagination
and thus your creations


My dear friend of poetic mind
I'm afraid to say but cannot lie
You understand not what I do
Your words demonstrate this to be true

An engineer's ideas
Come from nature's beauty
The calculations adapted
So it can be built in all safety

From birds we stole flight
From trees, a buildings might
From universal coldness so black
Understanding how gravity pulls us back

See that building over there
Magestic and tall it does stand
Take a careful look my friend
And I shall explain it to the end

From a slice of a rainbow
Those arches were born
A hyperbole of words
gives it that twisting form

Slow meandering of the river
Contributes that flowing shape
Finally calculations confirm
It shall stand against fate

So you see my friend
We are quite the same
Ideas pulled from the world
Yield answers within these pages.





Your hazel eyes




I hear it weighed upon us,
In purpose existential,
To understand the cosmos.

The charge is false,
Else the burden light.

Born not I by our whole mother,
At herself to wonder,
But at you, my tender other.





The Reynolds number and his mates




Sitting in an empty class I begin to contemplate
The Reynolds number and his mates

HYSYS then springs to mind and my heart loses pace I have fought the battle for four long years and I have reached my place.
The all-nighters had, the friends made and that one time mountain escapade.
All is done now all the fun had for having done this, am I truly mad?
But now I sit in the empty class thinking this and writing that
And once again begin to contemplate
The Reynolds number and his mates





Revision Views




Pen in Hand I stare down
MHMT stares back with a frown
In the corner Thermo looms
Soon I'll be singing the CRE blues.





The Saviour




Staring at the screen I begin my wait
I then begin to contemplate,
The Navier Stokes will be my defeat
Or to the hands of Clausius I shall meet my defeat?
Particle densities begin to crowd
And the Heat Equation rings out loud
The distillation column frowns
As the Evaporator towers down

In all this nightmare I see a light
Something someone to aid in my plight
When all looks dark I see at last
The lecturer arrives the saviour of the class





Lets Find Out




The facts are in more or less
no more moves in our game of chess
beautiful laws, no excess
Mr Young says he knows more than stress
says lights a wave, we laugh in jest
but his candle flame has passed the test
now energy comes in h, not less
our quantum worlds a total mess
but the magnetic moments still precess
is all our reality just a guess?

Lets Find Out





Quantised Qualia




Photons grace our retinae, illuminating our occipital lobes since birth.
Covert custodians of all speeds known on Earth.
Humbly allowing us to fathom our existence and truly comprehend life’s net worth.

Huygens on one end, Newton on another, driven to a corner we were forced to pick a side.
Observing our zero-sum debate, Nature sat quietly in the corner; smiling, until the time was right.
She then whispered unto us, “You have no say in this, for it is your consciousness that will decide.”

Undeterred, we clove the atom asunder in an attempt to do Doctor Higgs proud.
13.7 billion years and the eleventh-dimensional superstrings had never shared a laugh this loud.
In with both feet, yet we caused but a faint fray on the Quantum world’s shroud.

Ineffably enmeshed with the hologram of our illusion,
The inseverable subjectivity of perception served as anything but our solution.
So we began to celebrate praises for the journey and not the conclusion.

Oblivious to our imprisonment by empiricism from first light till bed.
Visitors to this strange spatiotemporal construct until our eulogies are read.
Only on our way home do we realise that this universe was all just in our heads.





Civil Mind




I believed that I was destined to become a football player
I finished school and my parents sent me abroad
To be a civil engineer!

Simple tasks became strategic visions
I looked at life like an open book to explore
I view it now as a statistics report
Full of numbers and angles.

The rose, tingled by the breeze, how beautiful it is ...
Is the ground underneath suitable for a concrete fill?

Caffeine became a source of rare enjoyment
As I understand lining of sewers and hydraulic systems
Working all nights completing endless assignments
Thinking about future employment

An unfortunate person ensured a donation,
Regardless of my mood
I stopped because now I can calculate the amount he would spend on food, Most of it was on booze
Heartless accurate conclusions
Made me realise that my sense of life is fading
I call the football a leather sphere
I used to score naturally into the goal
But today I stand confused,
As my eyes see a PVC rectangle shape and more
Soon, the seemingly easy chance has gone

I hope this is all temporary
Otherwise I will need mind therapy
Perhaps finishing my design drawings will help me,
Stop wasting time on unbeneficial poetry.





Being Human..




We unweave the rainbow perhaps it’s true,
But equally true, scientist, author and poet alike
All long for the uncharted extremes
Minkowski talked of space-time, Joyce had his streams.
Newton’s calculus and Shakespeare’s phrases aside
History’s rich in tales where the toll of fear and doubt
brought Science to its knees.
It’s human to hope, to fear, doubt and plough on till the end
It’s human to take leaps of faith
To dream, to dread, to believe in heaven and hell
Yet it’s more human to take a first step into the unknown
And thereby hangs a tale...

Just as it’s human to doubt and live by faith
Being human, scientists pour their life in their work
Unbeknownst to them if joy will greet them at the end
They nonetheless keep on longing for yet further extremes
And there lies a vision of Science’s own heaven and hell...





The more you know, the better it is




A dot
expands
Gives birth to a proton -
an electron too;
Laws.
Fourteen billion years.

A man at a desk.
Weeks of strife;
His microscope in focus
on the helix of life -
The crown jewel of it all
though wars rage on all sides
If the World is a groom
then we are the bride





Flight




The thin white streak,
Across the blue void,
Separates colour from itself.
And like the promethean spark
Gave technology to the world,
So too, does the quiet bird
Soar like the lark.
And keeps our dreams ever ascending.





In The Loop




Walking with no direction on this place,
We always find our own course,
On a so simple space never understood;
We have not yet converged on this site,
Never Imagined, scarcely described,
We still trudging on this complex topology,
Lingering on this surface by Möbius limned,
Anticipating the encounter,
Awaiting for an impatient side-glance,
Enough to drain these nuisance thoughts
Just enough to belong...





Let There Be Light




Let There Be Light!

Let There be Violet!...
And there was the Big Bang
The violent moment
The birth of the worlds, on which all came to exist

Let There be Indigo!
A good intuition
Of things happening
For the better on earth

Let There be a Blue!
For the young science and technology
For the peace, harmony we hoped to be having

Let There be a Green!
For the life on earth and out in the space
So they go in numbers and live in all goodness

Let There be a Yellow!
The joy the happiness that started to show
For the fruits of intellect we humans brought
For the ease of life and projected growth

Let There be an Orange!
For the big wrong turn, for the unfortunate
For the War among us, for the One and Two
And for our endurance to come out the event

Let There be Red!
Yes let there be Red, a big bold Red
Red of not negative! But, red of Remindness
To tell to our inner, that we fought ourselves
That we killed our likeness
That we misuse our minds
Yes,
Red of not negative, but red of Remindness
To stop this madness!

Yes, but...
Let there be a lesson - past experience, we have lived through this!
Science, Engineering, Social fruits of us
Let them change the earth to One great nation
Stop all Wars Now, hate and violation!

So...
Let there be Light!
Let there be love and let there be peace,
'At Least' . . ., Throughout the Universe!





Origin




To gaze upon stars with questioning eyes,
yet no fear bound in what beauty unknown,
see mystery of ulterior skies,
and believe not what doubt our minds be prone.

This is what science will hold to its own.
Yet – isomorphic with all artistry,
for it’s the same nest with which these have flown;
quondam airborne, tranquil, open and free.

Now paths diverge and create boundary,
trapping cognition, creating schism,
determinant of all minds fluency,
still the two share a parallelism.

For this reason a clear madness exposed,
ergo - augmentation is hence proposed.





ACCOMPANIED WITH LAGRANGE AND FOURIER




Accompanied with Lagrange and Fourier;

Your face looking like concave function is stared at.

After sorrow’s differential and hope’s integrate;

To chase Riemann’s first dream with you is what I want.

With convergence being difficult to block, with feelings being divergent;

Cauchy will be crazy without your limit.

De Lickley and Lebegue Jan is looking at Leibnitz’s portrait;

Rabet and Taylor is McLaughlin’s song in the hall full of light.

Breaking the supermum of everything in life with nothing left;

The way towards perfect future will be met.

My heart is becoming argument;

And my function varies with you down and up.

Low order or finite order, uniformly or non-uniformly;

Just like Piano remainder of the days together we spent.





Smelter




And so it was since Roman times
That man took the lead from the land
Plunging ever deeper to take to poison from the earth
Mining the wealth
Then to the furnaces, the forges, the factories
The smelter rises up out of the valleys
White hot heat
The viscous molten lead flows
Cast in three ton blocks
Like dense metallic bathtubs
Lying in the uneven yard
The air thick with lead
Dust masks must be worn at all time
The acrid stench of hot metal, acid, chlorine
Dust masks must be worn at all time
Water samples, stack tests, blood tests
Dust masks must be worn at all times
On site
The sprawling mass of dirty black buildings
Juxtaposed against rolling Derbyshire hills
Where the deer roam freely
Their fawns playing amongst the grass
Lush and green
The bee orchid, delicate and rare
Fighting up amidst the cooling towers, the foundry
The toxic leaden soil
Nurtures the fragile
Cultivates beauty





The blur




Drowning in misery am I,
Blood, sweat and tears is all I can see,
Bang. Crash. Thousands lie dead,
I am but a lone ember in this raging inferno,
My life hanging by a thread - a thread about to break,
All I can smell and taste is this petrifying smoke.

My head is spinning once again,
Images flash in my mind's eye:
The atomic bomb falling on Nagasaki,
People like ants scrambling from a giant foot,
Drowning in misery am I.





The shoulders that we stand upon




It's not decission that we make,
We are explorers, give or take...
How does it work? What is the source?
We want to know all that of course.

No longer doubt shall give us trouble,
As armed with science is our mind,
We are the people, men of progress,
We leave the ignorance behind.

We are detectives of unknown,
Our hearts are craving for adventure,
On roads we take, we're not alone,
With shoulders that we stand upon,
The giants lead us to the venture.





Nights with Quijote




The keeper on the hill spends endless nights
Casting beams into the glimmering fading cascade
To see the new star as the relic of an ephemeral blaze.
He gazes out to where curtains of sky fold into the sea,
Tilting at red lights and strong winds which close
The eyes of those who, on the end of the Earth
And on the edge of space, dare to graze.





Perpetual Search




Revelations of our times,
The mind is less humble.
Words have less meaning but the melancholy paradox
lies in inevitably asking,
Does anything have meaning?

Innocence confined,
deep in the voids of heart -
Merely a synaptic infinity?
Or a true truth?
In need of method, and worship.
Always returning to the same answer,
Peace of mind, a distant whisper.

Beauty divine,
How its syllabus evolves.
Through the seconds as eons pass,
Ever capricious Nature,
often begging an inquisition
into its existence and its relevance.
Always returning the same answer,
Satisfaction of mind, the blazing bliss.

Inquisitive, yet blind,
An endless endeavour, noble and never,
ceasing to praise that primordial elixir,
Unbraiding the spirit of life.
And with the slow resolution of mystery,
Another answer closer, another question further,
Until the last apple falls.





Creativity and humanity




Consider the stereotype of a typical scientist,
Mathematical and logical, nothing but a rationalist,
Likewise just think of your average engineer,
Technical and practical, no scope for beauty here?

Yet scientists study the universe, where there is such beauty to be found,
A spectrum, a star, a shimmering liquid crystal...just take a look around!
See the striking magnificence of a supernova explosion,
Nature’s subtle patterns or the elegance of an equation.

Scientists and engineers use imagination and creativity,
To gain an understanding of natural phenomena and activity,
Picturing structural details or the way a fluid flows,
Visualising atomic interactions or the way a lightbulb glows.

Scientists are curious, they have questions, they have queries,
They use their creativity to develop brand-new theories,
Engineers help to turn these into groundbreaking experiments,
Combining their creativity to solve real-world predicaments.

Science and Engineering, the opposite of Humanities?
To say that this is true is the definition of insanity!
Developing new medicines, curing cancer or researching nuclear fusion,
What subjects could be more creative or more human?





Atlantis




they had ‘black gold’ - glittering fountains
of fire, peaceful cells where the servants slept,
cities so bright, they swore they were stars
and this was heaven, or so they say:

at dawn, a chorus of ‘engines’ would hum
a Cambrian song, 500 million years old
and ice would bleed and birds drifted away

to haunted lands where orchestras of fish
and shimmering trinkets washed up on the shores
of sinking cities, their treasures now obsolete -

the dregs of dead seagulls and ancient remains
we tiptoe on eggshells and try to reminisce.





Wretched is he to whom Science is unknown (Sonnet I)




Wretched is he to whom Science is unknown

For in all its omnipotence truth is shown

And the awesomeness of Nature in all its might

Unfolds unto us to delight and excite.

For Science, indeed, in itself is an art

'Tis a language, 'tis music and doth impart

Knowledge but revealed to a certain few

Who possess the talent and thus can pursue.

To test, to experiment, relentless are we

In our quest, our yearning to learn so to see;

More powers of Science are to be newfound

Behold years of discovery, more to astound!

From falsehood and fiction in glory withstands

As we aim to hold science in the palm of our hands.





The Watcher




He tilted his head upwards.
He tilted his head and filled up his eyes
And listened keenly to the sound of the night
For echoes of the sky above.

All around him were familiar sights
Nestled in the sighs of the wind.
The Hunter, the Lion, the Serpent, the Bears
And the Maiden with the fairest hair were all there

Had always been there.

Many more beyond them, he knew just as well.
Fruits of patience, potential pinpricks
Upon the sky - or upon his imagination?
For in his mind he saw the most dazzling lights

He heard the most savage roars
Did his sensors lie? No - numbers don't.
Yet all that remains is the slightest shimmer
Or the faintest whisper.

But he sees. And he watches.
And for a flickering moment the Universe is his.





Her Eyes




Of all the visions I have seen, one haunts me to this day:
Two pretty eyes of emerald green with just a hint of gray.
I travelled far to distant lands across mountain and sea
But still these eyes, when I close mine, are all that I can see.

Of all the mysteries I've known unanswered to remain
And all the riddles in my mind I tried to solve in vain,
The truths about the universe I' m tempted to discover,
Only the answer to this 'How?' I wish I could uncover:

How come - despite the space and time between these eyes and me-
I yearn each night to fall asleep again with them to be,
I long for just one more time their beauty to behold
Even if this is the last thing I do upon this world?





The Special One




There was the Almighty God,
Who created everything with his best shot.
He was the only Great Spirit above,
Who pondered, "Have I done good or not?"

He granted everyone a profession
Which humans were destined to sharpen.
He made teachers, soldiers, doctors and then,
He made lawyers, philosophers and salesmen.

God tried as much as he could.
And each got his own job as he should.
It seemed the situation was good,
Which put God into a wonderful mood.

He decided to rest for a day,
When a sudden groan happened his way.
"Help me!" The man cried in dismay.
"I have no job! I have been turned away!"

The Creator was caught in a deep confusion.
He had planned all things to the greatest precision.
But why did this man not find his position?
Was this to be his specialist fortune?

God, at length, understood and smiled.
"Don't immerse yourself in sorrow, my child.
And don't complain; it is not anyone's fault.
You are the Special One; it matters naught."

"You may freeze in summer and sweat when it is cold.
You may work with equipment that is dirty and old.
You may have done your utmost, but progress still grows slow.
You may make mistakes, but have to keep them in a narrow field."

"You are forever cursed and blessed.
You are psychologically fine, but seem ill.
You do have fears, but are also brave and bold.
You may be quickly successful, but ultimately fold."

"You are granted an unconquerable soul.
You have knowledge enough to break through thresholds.
You are fueled with a faith to clutch the truth's tail.
You are an engineer, and in this you shan't fail!"





2/20 cc Skinny Jeans




I sit on the cover of Vogue and other magazines.
Adorning hips and limbs of your latest Fashion Queens.
Shaped, cut and sewn; designed to best flatter form.
This is my story, my journey; a tale of where I came from.

In fields afar, cream coloured woollen crowns sit atop majestic stalks.
These rounded forms now staple mass, condensed in bales of peppered chalk.
Cleaned, carded and combed so the process goes;
as staple fibres lie in parallel rows.
Aligned and straightened
to long continuous line, as roving’s spun and yarn created.

Waxen coat removed, body’s bleached a bright white
and mercerized; baptised in Sodium Hydroxide.
Staple fibre is rounder, drinking in indigo blues.
Lustrous pearly sheen, this season's trending hues.

Drafting planned, pegging designed as yarn journeys to fabric.
Round beams, through headles and reed; prepared to accept weft’s pick.
Up, down. Up, down. Frames rise and fall to Weaver’s will.
Lifting ends, inserting picks; weaving, a 2 by 2 twill.

So here I sit on the cover of Vogue and other magazines.
Adorning hips and limbs of your latest Fashion Queens.
Shaped, cut and sewn; designed to best flatter form.
I am denim.
This is my story, my journey; a tale of where I came from.





Matter




Mere mortals throwing reactions to our purpose,
Battle lingers, tending a supreme conclusion
Their words, eloquent; and often proving worthless
Uncaring, causing scenes of sheer dissolution

One and the same; answering the calls of mankind,
Raging, a nozzle expanding logical soul
Commandments on the blade of deity entwined,
What verified laws, forces seeking to control

But can we number that we cannot comprehend?
As theorems light the way to greater meaning
Divine energy likewise gives to that extend
The wounds but suffered, a tarnished truth revealing,

As intellect shadows devotion ill-informed,
One wise forgets not to leave room for that reformed.





The Atom




Surely Democritus was not the first
But that is where this tale of genius begins
Our quest for knowledge, our hunger, thirst
Dividing rocks to seek the answers within
Yet Aristotle mocked his theory so right
And so it was forgotten, lost into the night

Ages passed with no answers revealed
Until Rutherford, and his startling results
Secrets of the atom no longer concealed
However, still more questions, ideas, consults
Now enters Einstein with revolutionary concepts
Here changing the world, his ideas. So complex

Next to make history, Dirac and his equations
Leaves room for antimatter, thus pushing the mechanics.
These great men have now laid the foundations
And have begun the ball rolling with quantum dynamics
The discoveries continue, from quarks to photons
First mention of the Higgs, and the mathematics of bosons

The findings are slowing as the proofs become harder
But determined we are with our logical theories
Struggling to comprehend dark energy and matter
Yet soldiering on to give rise to our queries
The last piece of the puzzle, the Higgs is revealed
Acknowledge the Collider, no longer concealed.

The standard model is formed but still questions to answer
Like the next stanza in line, and to whom does it matter?





The Art of Science




Name not one man but many,
Who upon a chiral image gazed,
Seeking inspiration divine,
For the cloud of creative block does shadow
The answers, The answers, The answers.

Seven eves devoted,
Time and toil in day and dreams.
Upon blank canvas worked,
Drawing nearer the answers,
The method, The madness, The masterpiece.





An Opponent’s Thoughts




“Personal growth is a cycle.
It starts with a trigger
Then follows perception,
Continues throughout change
And ends with what first seems perfection.

Personal growth is an unconscious thing.
Enhanced by passion
And with devotion,
Often hidden behind thoughts,
Yet ultimately visible through the new or remade notion.

Personal growth seems a positive thing.
It creates inner conflict
And builds upon reflection,
Nurtures sensitivity,
Wit, self-love and affection.

Yet, he who is wise
Should seek relentless continuation,
So that there is no end,
No waking revelation
That again he has failed the invincible race,
An infinite loop
I set up in my evergreen maze.”,

remarked the Red Queen.





A Dark Trail




Like a firefly through the branches, of a black fruitless tree
A spark, caught in the snowfall, of a thousand pages upon a desk
when you catch it, it glows, reveals
a trail of where I've been, but not where I'm going
you see its organs, pulsating, rotating
like a clockwork skeleton ticking under thick skin
barely audible. But there, somewhere, surely?





Curiosity




A species of mystery, seeking answers from history,
Following science for answers of curiosity,
What is our purpose in this infinite space?
Tightly contained in the Goldilocks grace,
Our future is unknown but one thing is true,
Curiosity creates engineers that unfold the crease





Confessions of a conceited mind




The ice melted, the cave opened, out I came,
Holding a flame….

Tamed a horse; sowed a grain
Rolled a wheel; flew a plane
Found a quark, and a helical chain
Yet this anguish! Yet this pain!

Flaunting a boson, riding a rainbow
I warn the gods, “Respect, you must show!”
(Prometheus is smiling, Zeus buried below),
“My weapons are mighty, you better lie low!
My knowledge, my arrow!
My wisdom, my bow!”
Deep in my heart a fear looms though,
This curse of mine, will it ever go?
For the more I learn, the less I know!

The Human Genome, my rapture, my craze
These ‘three billion letters’ form barely a phrase!
This diversity of beings in my little shrine,
What I call 'life' is merely a line!
This gravity – my enemy, this universe – my cage
Immense, but still no more than a page…

The chapter?
The volume?
The book, my dear?





The Hunt




First, when he was young he looked across space
with pouring eyes the great space, and saw.
Thoughts leapt, and hands grasped.
He dug his brothers out from the mud, and
set them on their feet in the trembling sun.

And though space was great, they washed in the sun's white light, and were baptised. But his brothers were weak,
for in the glare they saw the face of truth
and bent their backs in madness before the glory.

'Harlequin aspect! Dread trickster!' He decried them for he knew
that truth did not blaze forth from the heavens,
but languished in the earth.

So with sinew, muscle, rock, tool, spit and steel,
with tine, with hope, with cursing, shrieking, doubting nights,
he raised shimmering endeavour,
and gave it to his brothers on that sad height,
and set it in the sun.





The Heat Engine




An agitated meeting,
In a turbulent space,
Their common repulsion,
Will soon be replaced,

Pressed and squeezed,
They hold their embrace,
Our sun glowing gold,
From their bonds release,

Reaching skyward,
The forest now stands,
Grasping this sunlight,
With outstretched hands,

Converting a sunbeam,
To a structure that's sound,
Grows tall in a lifetime,
Then falls to the ground,

As cliffs turn to sand,
The wood has long passed,
Towering then crumbling,
Through earth's hour glass,

Their humble sarcophagus,
An alchemists dream,
Transformed in secret,
Black gold lies unseen,

But the graverobbers came,
And they dug deep,
They cut,
Cracked,
Pumped,
Fracked,

They burnt.

There is no mention,
In the order of service,
Of a cremation,
For our own purpose,

In greater numbers,
They now conspire,
To return the favour,
As we fuel the fire,

Our arrogance revealed,
As it drip drips away,
Its out of our hands now,
The three laws hold sway.





Science




Is this a plague? A malady?
A gift? Or enlightenment?
Through time, been passed to us,
Through suffering, been wrought.

A phoenix of the mind,
Through fire of denial
And flame of it's own piercing scrutiny
Has passed. Destroyed, reborn, and fortified.

The very stuff of curiosity,
Tempered by patience, augmented by fear.
Accurate as (Occam's) Razor,
Pares fact from fallacy, and glimpses truth.

This is science.
Neither divine nor evil,
nor sacred or foul.
But a boundless crux,
Through which we glimpse the beauty of creation.





“From the island of beauty and love”




Our dreams created with such sweat,
Our old friends –
new enemies,
to destroy them, it’s what you request.
You can take everything from us
but not the sun, burning in our hearts.

New dreams we can form,
even though we are “small”.

From the pain we build
because we’re stronger than you think,
Our old friends - new enemies,
Just read our history, go back in centuries.

Drinking from the same glass of “nuisance”,
throughout our lives with no justice or relief.
Because everyone pursuits wealth,
chasing “a golden-green strategically-positioned leaf”.

From the island of beauty and love,
Very warm regards and a message to all.
We challenge you, show us what you have.
And if you think you can, take our Soul!



Georgios Panayiotou
Nicosia
31st March 2013





The Final Examination




I

On the day the new chapter unveiled
I sat frozen on an half-full seat,
Projecting my silence in an ancient hall
It was to be an oscar repeat,
With minutes left to engineer my pen
I deciphered the Fibonacci code,
And like a pick haggling a lock
I unshackled my narrow flooded mind,
Unsheathed my righteous left hand,
In an instance it took me back in time.

II

In a mist of eighteen-twenty-four,
Near the very same ancient hall,
I inhale the fumes of industry
In a proud purple victorian attire,
Thinking of my life with an institute
I see Brunel running down with fire,
I chase after, to calm and contemplate,
then like Archimedes out his boat,
I pepper him with lecture notes.

Eureka.

Round by round we shadow boxed,
In a ghost filled sackvile street,
With fight, flight and plight in air, I swing,
“How do I resist beam deflection
and how does this relate to life?,
What is the meaning of connections
and how much should I write?”,
With eager anticipation of a reverie
I received the burns of a left hook,
His response was transparent,
A winning move, pawn takes rook.

III

Two hours gone; I lay down my worn pen,
As I sag in my chair, flooding with emotion,
Re-reading and reciting this worded den,
My mouth widens with a tired sigh,
I reflect my time gone by, with a dignified cry.





Quod Me Nutrit Me Destruit




Give me oxygen and you give me life,
The beautiful harmony of respiration and photosynthesis,
Every step of life and each short breath we take,
Running in our blood and flooding our lungs,

Give me oxygen and you give me fire,
The furious combustion that bestows gifts of light and warmth,
The birth of mankind and the mastery of destruction,
Taming the world and fueling creation,

Give me oxygen and you give me decay,
The harsh wind and waves that rusts and corrodes steel,
The bane of strength and the ticking clock,
Marching inevitably, all to dust,

Give me oxygen and you give me everything,
Give me oxygen and you take it all away.





Evolution of Science




Buried within the human mind,
Questions; how, what, where and why?
Many seeds of query planted,
The source of knowledge now taken for granted.

Shoots emerge and capillaries grow,
Equations drift in laminar flow,
For each explanation more questions arise,
But relished, since the answer's a prize.

Adjacent to this cognitive stream,
Another flows fuelled with design and scheme,
It's the engineering branch and it can only progress,
When the two intertwine and both coalesce.

A bulging artery now meanders the body,
So dependent we've grown on modern technology,
Turbulent currents of wisdom so rapid,
Forgotten the time when science was placid.

An augmenting momentum floods the front line,
Colossal expansion; the work done is sublime,
Permitting this tide to gush through your veins,
Brings bliss as you are unleashed from your reins.





Pioneers




Blind-mass consume; malleable, remiss,
Whilst lost, wracked, tortur’d men hunt the answers:
Wise scholars, intellectuals, chancers
Seek what aludeth man: crave truths amiss.
What may exhalt from cerebral-abyss?
Great discoveries silence denouncers
Turn to faith? Enlist a necromancer?
Yet, e’en He suffered His own tsuris.
Drive on, spiteth other-worldly reproach,
Refuse renounce logic: rational faith,
Ne’er kneel to ecclesiastical thought.
Vigour renewed borne of steadfast approach:
Hallelujah, Eureka, the genius saith!
The populous care not.





The Engineer




Engines ignited, cranking the cogs,
Nurtured by reason, logic; the Gods,
Grinding the tartan, laying the tracks,
Install a vision, restore the cracks.
Networks of signals, jolting the parts,
Enforced by Gaia, neglect the sparks,
Envy inspires, refine the mind,
Revise perspective, refining mankind.





The Black-Scholes Equation




Black-Scholes, she glistens.
Whispers of doubt dare not damage her pride.
For an army of quants - masked, worn and turbulent,
Clutch her. Race to gain the monetary reward, prize.

Behind her swarms a sea of truth. Lies. Predictions.
Volatility sigma sways to the sweet lullaby of Brownian motion,
Whilst a stock price struggles as he clutches to ride her wave,
Prediction looms. A market storm headed towards the ocean.

Quants cry, yearn, despair as they wrestle the thunder,
Dear beauty’s sterling wonder, how can it be merely slander?
Calls fall and demolish, vaporised in pain,
Black Monday claims her glory, establishes her reign.

A Black Swan of great might, she roars delight,
Like a nepenthes drowning her prey, mercilessly she sways.
Black-Scholes lies powerless, sojourns on the sea bed,
Her predictions now worthless, nothing more can be said.

A mathematical beauty, defeated and bruised,
Her soft parameters bewildered; paralysed, subdued.
The Black Swan was victorious, this time, she whispered.
Black-Scholes. She glistens.





Fe




I am born.
From the womb of the Earth
They spit at my ugly form at birth.
Yet I am the ink of their revolutions,
Blotted across their greatest constructions.

I am young.
With hellish heat I’m tamed; the anvil
And the Hammer to break my will.
Rolled. Stretched. Quenched.
Purified by the oxygen lance I exit the furnace,
Chain myself to the concrete sleepers as I span miles over the surface
Unmoving
as engines stampede over me. I was
Drawn into bolts that wove the hulls of Her Majesty’s navy,
Unwound in to the frames that define the Empire state,
Imbued into the cables that carry the Golden Gate and
Forged into the very dies and hammers that shape me.
The navigator’s needle, the slave’s sickle;
The conqueror’s canon; the fortress of the fallen.
I am the fall of nations. I am - their reconstruction.

I am old.
Wither and decay I must
As they laugh at my wrinkles of rust.
Onward time lingers,
And me –flakes between your fingers.
But remember:
As
your cells gasp for air:
I am there.
Imagine li-Fe
Without-
Me.





Every Atom Counts




To know the truth, that is our aim
To see it with our eye
A microscope we then must use
Though light won't satisfy

Electrons, then, must be our guide
And so we put our hope
Of sweeping darkness aside
In the electron microscope

And with this idea unfurled
The challenge we can surmount
To peer into the nano world
Where every atom counts





Addiction




Buses full of students run through Manchester
one destination the campus of The University of Manchester,
all us have something in common, two loyal and inseparable friends
who keeps secrets, works, mails, models and calculations.

Naked seem our if us forget of them
our unconditional trust have been won in the last years
do not matter if it is raining or snowing
they are available 24/7/365.

Their size and colour are in fashion every season
lightweight as
birds and fast as eagles
they silently eat many megabytes





Human Nature




We view, taste, hear, dream, follow.

If we had not been born with it plastered on our TV screens: role models that we were taught to idolize teaches us what we payed them to do.

Guinea pigs to the full portrait, our eyes stay blind only way to set free from the force of nature of corruption is to judge that inner sign that inner voice and listen to the correction you need.

Trying to show you have become an addict to the world, desires to please your alter ego will give you the worst shock your footprints have ever come across.

You cut your heart for one hour of joy, everlasting tears will only follow in the end: leads you to pause.. and think, was it worth for only a few moment of "yay".

Fun falling unidentified nature you have woken up in your own self, but yet you cant remember yourself, what is going on or what happened to you, so you simply move on





Constants and variables




Form function to pointer, we goto and do
recalled by other, and called by self
Started for initial, ended by definition
With loops and reference, a program finished
Take out objects and get rid of statements

back to the origin
just be two simple-
numbers





How a dream is built




We spin the yarn of passion;
blending tastes of every season.

We weave them with care;
interlacing every corner of the sphere.

We colour them with desire;
moving harmonics through air.

We crave and fill our heart;
keeping all evils apart.

Well built dream is like a castle of ice;
simply think good and close your eyes.





Degeneration




Bang! Went the universe
and so the dance began

Between new states did energy flitter
Till virgin sky awash with glitter
But entropy crept along in kind
This spring of birth would soon find
Each new state has its cost in time

In time this early innocence died
as death picked off the stars like flies
Violent or resigned to their fate
mortality lay in their wake

Our current age of death and rebirth
may well be summer of the universe
Sentience, our fleeting quirk
Our quaint ideas of meaning and worth
In a universe aloof and clockwork

As all dies and winter draws near
entropy's grand plan comes clear
Light will fade to featureless black
to life and order we can never go back

I'm often struck by the futility
the inevitable doom of all I see
Meaning can be hard to free
When just a slave of entropy.

I need a shit.





There will always be tomorrow




Lost souls searching for salvation, empty hearts searching for love, bright minds searching for inspiration .... and another year passes by.
Silent night symbols deprivation, cold breeze blowing through the room, lights out a blinding desperation ... and another year passes by.
Haunting dreams causing suffocation, sounds of the past crying doom, overpowering karmick rule ... and another year passes by.
A candle blows with repeated supplication, a delightful change of scene, time changes every devastation ... and another year passes by.
Enchanting whispers exchanged by creation, a rush of adrenaline by noon, smiling eyes are an indication ... New year is here so soon.





Defining a Human




It can be shown that insecurities increase proportionally with time squared in an isolated system.
If we substitute this into our self-esteem equation,
The conditions for breakdown emerge neatly.

As insecurities approach infinity,
The terms in kindness and compassion become negligible.
Using this, we can show that the equation converges on loneliness and desperation.

But if we consider a restoring force,
A combination of hope, life, friendship and love,
From a random distribution of sympathetic actions,
A human can be driven above the breakdown limit,
Tunnel through the barriers of denial and abandonment,
And reach an equilibrium state with positive mentality.





Opposites don't have to bring conflict




The Sun and his brightness,
And the day by which he’s revealed.
The Moon as she follows him,
And the night by which he’s concealed.

Opposites though are day and night,
They exist in harmony.
The Sun borrows her his glorious light,
So we don’t only rejoice when it’s sunny.





Being Human




We are becoming less human in this present age,
With metals in our body ignored by microphage.
Steel and titanium alloys seem to replace,
What Mother Nature had tried to erase.
Are we becoming super heroes like Iron-man?
Or are we merely preserving life’s plan?
So whatever breaks or gets damaged, we can fix it.
We have implants and the body does not conflict it.
From prosthetic limbs to artificial skin,
We have reinvented almost everything,
Being human has been re-defined,
And thus we have become less confined.





Generation




Choirs of embers erupting black and red,
Hoarse roaring harmonies of incandescence.
Converted then by steam and copper
To a dusty humming of old strip lights.

In reactors, matter is severed of itself
Furious spitting and spinning anger is transmitted
From the rarefied spoils of ancient earth
To tantalise bright coils of filament
Burning under glass.

By summits and damp hillsides
Great tumbling courses of air
Move porcelain gymnasts proud at height,
Coalescing to provide traction
For furnace and arc.

These are strange natures,
A ragged and unknowable intensity
Channelled to an expectant silence
Readied in place
Rearranged for convenience.





WE INNOVATORS




We made pi as easy as pie
but
have yet to fully resolve it
The sky's the limit
but yet we have already touched it.
Our minds, anything but ordinary.
Visionaries indeed.
The future is an ever growing tree
and innovation is the seed.

If we see through Galileo’s machine of glass,
things become clearer.
As it is written in the stars
that we are the wayfarers
Sitting isolated, studying the doctrines and scriptures,
It is with our pens, we pave a path to the future.

We look to our predecessors for inspiration.
But who are these men indeed?
Visionaries of their generations
who paint with the blood they bleed,
The builders of today,
They set the foundation for tomorrow,
So how then do we lose our way?
When it is their path we follow

We screw the nuts and bolts
that keep things running.
So we can mix up the chemicals
that keep new things forming.
Under-appreciated? Yes. It does seem funny.
But a fair price we pay to keep the world turning.

In advancements in arts, science and media,
we follow a path set up within the galaxy, Andromeda.
Made by falling stars who rose again,
made for the enlightenment and not for fame.
Today, This path lights the way
as great men and women are born again.





Jekyll and Hyde




His face gibbous in the long midnight shadows. Lip curling or smiling, unknown.
A glint in his eye, reflecting the lamplight. Honey and danger in his gravelly tone.
‘Come closer’ he murmurs, both Jekyll and Hyde, voice sapient and self-possessed.
But the lineaments of a silhouette leave too much that can be guessed.

A grainy picture is formed on low exposure one photon at a time, Planick’s constant made visible.
As in the photoelectric effect, each electron is released; finite, whole and indivisible.
Then from white light through Young’s two slits, a rainbow intense and clear is made.
Art from interference; diffraction around slit edges as wave laws are obeyed.

In the same way, if you were to shout Jekyll to Hyde in a busy crowd he would slowly turn to meet your eye.
Turn your back and he will open a door beneath your feet, watch logic fall awry.

In one man there is violence in his silence and eye of storm calm.
The other, heavy with remorse and for the hurt he is the balm.
One second, travelling as a wave, another, traits impart.
The Jekyll and Hyde particles with a Janis heart.





Earth’s Lamentation





On the first day man looked around and was dissatisfied, so he raised his hand
And killed all the creatures that had roamed the land.

On the second morn man gazed about and was overcome by greed,
So he poisoned the seas to fulfil his desperate desperate need.

On the third day man stared at his earth with pitiless eyes,
And chose to slaughter the birds and destroy the skies.

On the fourth sunrise man observed the world and was displeased by the sight,
So he slew the forests and the fields as he felt it was his right.

On the fifth day man stood upon the earth that he had thought was his to plunder,
And discontent with what he saw tore the ground asunder.

On the sixth dawning man stood in all his might,
And turned his face towards the sky as he blotted out the light.

And now it is the Sabbath day and man lies in his grave.
In memory of the good bright world, that he had made his slave.





I love you





I love you because I know you
I kiss you because I enjoy you
I warm you because I surround you
I stare you because I impress you
I amuse you because I appriate you
I trust you because I have you





Random Heart





You are my world
At first sight
I no longer doubt

Butterfly
Water flow

Dear No
You don't see
The nature of chaos





Care the Mother





Standing here, on laminae of sands,
Sipping the air of the Creator,
That blue sky seems so far.
For it now being cloudy gray,
Of the tantrums thrown to her.

The humans yet not be responsible,
Exploiters who disturb the norms,
May we all rise and be concerned,
Free her from
those hands of the destructors.

Oh the Earth, the Mother,
Where will we once, be one,
Till the day of our last.





Thank You





We see each other through good and bad,
And those memories are what we share.
The love and guidance that you give,
Will always stay with me because I care.

The hugs and kisses that you give,
Brings a sense of comfort and warmth,
And may the happiness you bring me,
Continue thenceforth.





Dabbling in Light





What is art, but the dabbling
In the wavelengths, which a paintbrush holds
Or the greyscale a sketch foretold
Maybe the vibrations that ring clear in our ears
Possibly the equations that transport us to the world of our fears
Under the stars and the moon
We find ecstatic patterns hewn
And put them to a medium we do
Science is but the same thing,
Look inside and you'll see for
What is science, but the spectrum split and found
Of colours, endless and unbound
Of melodies that move between quiet and loud.
The moving heavens we gaze upon
Never still is the Earth that we're on.
All of us pulled towards the fiery plasma suspended in the sky
That shows us the how and why
Of energy unlimited and vast
So tell me how we see them apart when
Wavelengths are to colours what vibrations are to sound
And the page upon which their pencils' touch,
Reveals the secrets of the world, and
When thoughts of joy are so profound,
A time through which their ideas ebb and flow,
Time and time again, more they know,
And so the parting line between science and art
Is blurred by nature whom never set them apart
And did Nye not show that science and engineering go hand in hand?
A line blurred from the start.





Wings of Tesla





Nikola Tesla, forgotten scientist.
Dying wish, was to fly and live,
with the dove he loved, in the skies in bliss.
Humans lie and people cheat,
but lies had never left that beak.
As the current alternates they speak.
Dream a lot, but barely sleep.
Some say that he lost his mind,
but he was a man lost in time.
Victim of pureness in his heart.
Thomas Edison shot a poison dart.
The rest of the world threw flying boulders,
Marconi stood on the giants shoulders.
Radio, remote control, x rays,
modern electric motor, unsung praise,
wireless communication, lighting balls,
Hydroelectric plant at Niagara Falls.
Tesla put Watsonn-Watt on the radar,
but was left poor and alone in a graveyard.
No one heard his dying words,
but all he saw was flying birds.
You hear his name when songbirds sing,
it echoes loud in the flaps of wings.





Theoretical love





We couple like a gluon pair,
Our interaction strong - no force can compare.

Our position in love uncertain.
Our future unknown.

The colour of my heart is conserved
And belongs to you alone.





A gas cloud floats





A gas cloud floats, a new-born in the empty vacuum.
It gathers. It combines. It lives.
Singular, the lone star rises from the gassy plume-womb.
The first of its kind, a solitary light in our night sky,
Joys it brings to the heavens…parents, the magic of their creation.
Inside the core, protected and fed with hydrogen-love,
It grows. It survives. It blossoms.

As it gains gravity-mass-age, the star shines.
Shines out, radiates in all directions, touching the lives of all.
The main sequence has begun and stable burning,
With its unwavering determination, leads the way for the youngster
It glows. It fuses together the materials of life.

Abruptly

It ball oons    ou  twards

Booming

rapidly, gasping for air,

Instability in its pubertal stages, he experiences
Unpredictable waverings of the soul.
Experiences lust for the first time…
It struggles. It wrestles. It implodes. It explodes.
Still too hot to approach, hotter than ever, it waits, burning white
From the hydrogen-love, it took before.
But now, it gives, ever more steadily and passionately with its strong, glimmering iron core.
Until it can not anymore, hardened to blackness.

My Son, you are ready now.
Ready to face,
To meet. To love. To passion.
Things approach, attracted, gravitated, accreted.
Life-long colleagues, friends, lover.





Love=e^t=d(e^t)/dt=∫e^tdt





My love for you can be mathematically expressed as below:

Love=e^t=d(e^t)/dt=∫e^tdt

Where

e is the exponential constant;

t represents time.





Doppler





Roses are red,
But sometimes they're blue,
As Doppler might say,
Were they coming toward you.





The electrocardiogram




I am the ECG, what do you see when you look at me?
Do you see the morphology of my waveforms and measures?
Do you see a myocardial infarction or a left bundle branch block?
Who knows what you will see when you look at me.

Each of us a song to sing, a captured moment in time, singing like
musical notes on a manuscript sing to the mind and soul of the musician;
desperate now for you to see the song in me.

Sometimes I sing to you, brash and loud, sometimes I whisper
like a voice in the crowd. But if you look closely, surely you'll see the song in me; because I am, the ECG.





Job Satisfaction




What could be better
Than studying the weather?
If our forecasts don’t make the grade
At the end of the day we still get paid!





Manhattan





Untouched creation
A physicist leaps in
A deep resonance





General Negativity





The lecture was stopped by young Meryl
To contest time dilation with heckle:
'Sir, the black hole of meaning,
Which results from your teaching,
Renders each minute eternal!'





aComputerLife





I never looked passed windows when entering this stream
whether the worlds canvas or a pixelated screen
I didn't know this domain
The early years were spent in an in-place self searching algorithm
with emotional transistors in intrinsic core
switching and clocking highs and lows

during my time here I've gone through them all
I visited each state and even took a byte of apple
But currently I sit in the tri-state
awaiting the end of final year

I have compiled some thought
so that you can understand my machine code
local to me but alien to most

a cold mechanical grind in my arm and drive
and the pages I transcribe
from memory
I elaborate the dense data set
unfolding the loops in front of you
trying to un-confuse my confusion matrix

I'm just another member of the queues and the lines
with a stack of dreams in my memory
partially altered and partially the same
I'm about the enter the world once again





Vibration Inside Out





My heart vibrates,
Not because I’m nervous,
But because I’m happy to help the world,
World appreciate me,
They lubricant me, they monitor me,
As time flies,
I can’t denied, I get nervous even more,
I’m utterly afraid, I can’t perform properly,
Body heats up, I get misaligned,
I disappoint them,
My body shakes and vibrated frequently,
Every eye on me,
I hope they learn a lot from me,
Write them all, shared them all,
Now it’s time, I will never return,
Keep our memories,
Be good to my friends,
Because you know we’re just
A machine.





Approaching and leaving





When you entered my life and caught my eye,
I enjoyed every moments when we are together.
The frequency of hearing your charming voice is high;
Filled with eagerness, I desired to be closer.
Suddenly, one day you left,
And that frequency dropped just like Doppler effect.





It's love





I‘m solving the question for a long time.
It's easy for me to handle it.
But, why not stay long with you？





Our Tomorrow




The rocky landscapes that shape our planet
The rainbow skies and speckled moon
Barren deserts and vast oceans deep
A blissful dream of solitude

Spotted leopards, snoozing bears
Golden eagles will grace the cloudy sky
Wild boar and floating hippos
A wondrous place said I

Yet time has withered the sorry earth
Mankind will paint a tumultuous terrain
The beauty that once was is no more
But what is left we must retain

The future needs not be bleak nor bitter
Chin up, just smile and eliminate sorrow
Together the sun will rise once more
On our home, our future and our tomorrow.





MATLAB-ing Spring





On an average fine day in spring
he would not wake up and already sing,
sing or whistle a merry sweet tune, -
but keep solving equations till noon.

All day long he would write evaluations
and then optimize his own simulations,
would even skip lunch and dinner,
and risk getting thinner and thinner.

On an average spring day he wouldn’t sing,
But spend more time on MATLAB than Xing -
or any other tempting, alluring social app
or even his own sweet bed; what a trap!

He finds himself caught between
figures, numbers and caffeine,
even some books might be there,
papers and journals everywhere.

An average day, come sun or rain
he spends in shackles and chain,
locks himself up in a tiny room. -
That’s the PhD student’s doom.

In his mission he’s passionately lost,
alone at uni; only MATLAB his host.
Brooding and pondering; then revelation!
He solved it! Found the proper mitigation!

Now on an average fine day in spring
our story’s protagonist can finally sing,
sing or whistle a merry sweet tune, -
on his mind only sleep - coming soon!

Eventually all the pressure he can release
enjoy the sun and put his mind at ease,
reflect on tech, science and years of fun,
after hard work he got this thesis done.





We are all antennas





We transmit our signals of love, passion, success, hate and failure to the whole world waiting for a response

Sometimes our signals are absorbed and we could barely hear the resonance

Sometimes our signals are scattered and no one could feel the turbulence

But

We shouldn't give up

We should keep on transmitting our positive and negative signals over and over

We shouldn't give up

One day our signals will be strong enough to get through all life obstacles

We shouldn't give up until we have a real reflection

We are all antennas





The Four Horsemen




You, the Universe, near and yonder,
How it is, you make me ponder,
What deep secrets do you hold?
Such great knowledge, new and old.

It is said, you are governed by Four,
Only those, no less and no more,
So now we explore them, each in turn,
And their roles in Nature, we will learn.

First, the Strong, how strong you are,
you act with the close, but never the far,
Binding all of our matter together,
You shall go on, forever and ever.

Second, the Weak, causing decay,
Alpha or Beta, how will you sway?
You have many uses, from medicine from power,
Supplying energy, every day, every hour.

Third, Electromagnetic, giving us light,
Without you, we would be forever in night,
Attractive or repulsive, depending on charge,
And just like your beauty, your range is large.

Finally, Gravity, perhaps the most known,
The mystery of them all, you reside alone,
Described by Classical, hiding in Quantum,
However, for now, you leave us wanton.

And so it ends, the story of Four,
One day in the future, we’ll open the door,
Until then, we’ll keep debating,
To find your secrets. One day. Waiting.





The Reason We Science





There’s a reason we work hard, sometimes through the night,
some of us underground, away from sunlight.

There’s a reason we crunch numbers and draw complex graphs,
we can read hidden messages, disguised by the maths.

At times we may feel lost, confused or depressed,
but the truth is we know that science is a test.

If we attack it, creative, with effort and passion,
we may be rewarded in a glorious fashion.

But like a dying star's light,
glory ultimately fades.

The real reason we dance with this curious power,
is beauty in the Universe and the view from this tower.





War in heavens





Droplet formation facing reality,
Continuous struggle, succumb or survive!
Critical size, type of seed and humidity are regulating your time –of–flight.
After rough scuffle, stable and wet, joining your mates in an unfolding clime,
Forming a cloud of a mixed liquid phase,
Fighting to death against Ice nuclei





The Feudal system





I am a knight in a modern-day feudal system.
My armour is knowledge, my quest to find the holy grail of chemistry
The most noble prize.
I supervise the serfs and keep them in order, ensuring they toil their allotted hours.
I work in the hope that one day I may become a baroness, recruiting more knights for our cause and sourcing money for the King.
The king and the church oversee all proceedings; their word is final.
So knights or serfs is anybody free?





Perception





All the work in my life had led me to this,
A pill lay before me, in this dark abyss,
My dreams, ambitions, and fears filled my eyes,
How was I to know this pill was my demise?

I thought to myself ‘The pill must be tested,
Scrutinized, assessed, approved, and invested,
No animal could I submit to this trial,
It is I who must swallow the pill in the phial.’

Immediately after, I noticed the change,
A sharpness, a sweetness; my mind seemed deranged,
What others assumed secret; their thoughts and feelings,
I could see and hear, as though I was dreaming.

It was my “Eureka!”; a triumph, a thrill.
A world of telepathy inside of a pill;
For what used to be fiction – an irrationality,
Was no longer fantasy, but my own, brief, reality.

The weather turned bleak as I pounded the streets,
Everyone’s thoughts were destruction and defeat,
While people would speak of their love and their glee,
A swarm of hostility was all I could see.

Liars were omnipresent, a sea of dishonesty,
I hated it all, the cheats, the mendacity!
The mercury tumbled and the sky turned sour,
As I arrived home to my final hour.

The power of this pill was stunning and prime,
It decayed little with distance and never with time,
This was the pill’s weakness, its ultimate flaw,
For I knew what happened behind a closed door.

And I knew what was happening, right then, out of sight,
And it filled me with anger, it filled me with fright,
This knowledge was not power, it was of no use,
Unfortunately I did know how to tie a noose.

With my final minutes, my mind was delirious,
And, just to think, I’d thought I’d be imperious,
The thoughts of thousands were surrounding my brain,
But I could only hear one, with zero refrain.

My fingers were frozen, my hands were numb,
Why didn’t I own a sweet, simple gun?
I stepped up and donned my necklace-like rope,
There was no more life; there was no more hope.

I was my own lab-rat, the irony shows,
My life’s work complete, now this was the close,
The sky opened and covered my body with snow,
There are some things, it seems, we ought not to know.





Science




I am light.
I am the perception of darkness.
I am understanding, I am documentation, I am humility.
I am beauty, I am passion
I am cold, and without morals.
I am self-descriptive, a product of that which I study –
I am everything and nothing.
I have many names – I am the devil, I am sin
I am truth, I am progression.
I was born with humanity, perhaps
I will die with them, perhaps
I will be their death.
I am a cancer cure
I am an atom bomb
I am science.





The Moon





High above the earth and out in space
Among the stars and planets
Away from meteorites and comets

Spinning on an axis and orbiting the earth
With craters deep and wide
Your gravitational pull controls the tide

With changes in size from new to full
You wax and wane
And shine bright again and again

The only natural satellite of the earth
You fill our night sky
And are gazed upon by many a curious eye





No More No Mores





No more long walks in the park,
No more cuddles it’s too dark,
No more chatting on the phone,
No more standing on her own,
No more holding her own cup,
No more having to wash up,
No more lending a helping hand,
No more playing in the sand,
No more opening her post,
No more cooking the Sunday roast,
No more running for the buses,
No more helping to trim the bushes,
No more crying don’t make a fuss,
No more no mores this isn't us.

Dedicated to my mum who suffered a brain haemorrhage causing her to lose her sight, mobility and ability to talk properly, whist giving birth to me 24 years ago.





The silent scream




What was that!
That sharp shrieking sound!
Piercing my silence like a meticulously sharpened dagger,
Sliding through flesh.
Did you not hear it?
Listen Carefully.

It does not vibrate your eardrums but resonates with your mind.
This sound is inexplicable.
It is your darkest secrets,
Your dreams, your aspirations,
The answer to your most burning questions.
Your fears, your success, your failures.
Your fear of failure,
And
success.

It is no longer a sound.
It is a bright light…
No, wait,
An object;
A house, a tree, a butterfly, a woman, a child,
It is me.
But now it has returned to an audio signal.
And I’m beginning to understand it.

It is a scream!
A silent scream that transcends the young, shallow mind.
I can now see the scream,
It is an ancient man…
My ancient mind.
Calling, screaming to me,
Attempting to cross dimensions of space, time and reality to contact silly little ignorant me.
I feel special.
You have my full attention!

No, oh wise one,
I do not want to know the secrets of the universe,
Or the future,
My life on earth will become pointless.
Answer me this one question.
What am I missing?
Where is that needle in the haystack,
It is both visible and invisible,
Elusive and enticing,
This missing ingredient,
This paradoxical….. thing!

I persevere, I work hard.
I am humbled by success,
I learn from failure.
But my joy lacks jubilation,
My sorrow lacks tears…
STOP Child,
You asked the wrong question.
What you should have asked is:
Why am I screaming?
I scream for your acknowledgement.
I am you so you know the answer to all your questions.
You just have to hear my scream.





Footprints Around The Silent Building





It was rainy & windy
I was trying to find my way

This is my first day
In my favorite university

I can't forget that day

I don't know
Where to go

No body care
Who is there

I can't forget that day

in front of Sackville building
ugly face was smoking

I smile politely to her
Unfortunately, she doesn't care

I can't forget that day

Without more justification
I reach my destination

Very Long corridor
Silent people dream "doctor"

I can't forget that day

Since they came to the kingdom
All believe in this wisdom

As a PhD Candidate
You have to be up-to-date





The Prisoner





Each and every second that passed
Uncertainty took its toll
Not knowing which would be the last
Was a torment to his soul
His fate ordained, the die was cast
A martyr they could extol
So he faced the crowds amassed
And there played out his role





Pun with integrity





It's fun to pun
In an Abaqus run
with an increment of one.
To take the stress and strain
that are plane
again
And crack on with cracks
where the stresses are max.





The Fresher Physicist of Manchester





With my lab partner Big D,
I calculated Big G,
The results were dodgy,
Manipulation was key,
Looked stuff up on wiki,
‘cos it was too damn tricky,
Why, oh, why gravity,
Do you do this to me?

When it came to oscillations,
Feynman was inspiration,
Damped or forced no hesitation,
I was filled with anticipation,
Then I started on vibration,
I didn’t get the formulation,
Nor the Q factors implications,
Until I solved the differential equations.

I spend my time in Schuster,
Don’t need no calculator,
Built a telescope on the first floor,
Spied the planet known as Jupiter,
Here in sunny Manchester,
Cox don’t have all the power,
Splits it with Forshaw and Loebinger,
They got some prime numerical banter;

We all have that physics swagger.





Ode to Maxwell's Demon





Demon of mystery, with impish nature.
Tricky. Bearer of burden, purveyor of stress,
A theoretical creature,
Maxwell’s creation brought him not rest
Unruly urchin, wise to the universe,
Cerberus of systems, the granter of transit,
Particles moving in reverse
Second law vandal, can’t permit.
Where heat draws heat, and cold draws cold
A thorn in the sides of great minds
For centuries caused science commotion
Feynman’s ratchet of Brownian motion.
Though disproved, with prevalence decreased
Is Maxwell’s demon really deceased?





The tale of Shimadzu Matt, the HPLC system who thought it was human





I am known to all as Shimadzu Matt
I'm a top of the line machine at that
I was fitted together
By a man who was clever
And smelt of old oil and leather

My pump is my heart, so strong and so sure
My blood is solvent, so clean and so pure
My veins may be steel
But they're no less real
I am alive, I too can feel

I was unveiled with great pride and delight
I gleamed, shiny and new in the light
I was put through my paces
Before loving faces
I was the king, for I covered all bases

My PDA they loved, for I scanned the UV
My autosampler was lauded; I could take MTPs
My runtimes were short
For that I was bought
But soon my pride all came to nought

They forced me to work all day and all night
They would allow me neither rest nor respite
They only gave me a break
When it was too much to take
The pressure so high, my alarms were awake

My body at last grows old and tired
My tubing is blocked, my valve seals expired
My chromatography poor
Retention times unsure
Leaks spring, send my blood to the floor

I was the best; now I'm alone and confused
I sit in the corner, obsolete and unused
I see it, their new HPLC
For them, function always is key
Just a matter of time now, before they unplug m–​





Inside a ring





She put down a ring
Surrounds me within

'My world is complete'

Of course darling
And with the rest of the world
You too stand in my ring





(no subject)





Weekly Library activity report
Careers in the Media
Graphene Enterprise
Symposium in Salford


Power Outages Chemistry Building
Correct Disposal Of Wastes
Chemistry Building Goods Lift Faulty
Seminars this week


Chemistry Building Goods Lift Working Again
Lab Tidy
Chemistry Stores ice machine
Synthesis Lab Monday


Ongoing issues with the nitrogen generator
Chemistry Building Goods lift
HELP PLEASE!
Drinks





I Ask Questions





I ask questions because

I want to know things.
Silly. I know that,
Why not know a dream?

I want to understand.
Don’t you?
Don’t you want to know what and how and why?

Why?

I want to find things out.
An explorer, cutting back swathes of rainforest
Clearing a path.

People who don’t want to know anything scare me.
What else can they want?
Real understanding is breathing fire.

This is not a love story,
More like the human condition.
Knowledge isn’t power.

It’s peace.

I just want to know things.
Lots of things.
Maybe everything.

And why not?





Life Equation




Ah, my dear, you fill your life's cup with every tear;
Today is yesterday's regret and tomorrow's fear;
No wonder your problems seem so severe;
In your life, when you solve a problem, two or more will appear;
The solution maybe real, complex or unclear;
Listen! Design a controller and make your future clear !





Y0u, M3 & B050n




1t tak35 a b050n, 10v3?!
1t tak35 a b050n!
4 me 2 kn331 d0wn & pr0p053 2 u,
4 u 2 5ay ‘0h y35!’
4 u 2 5ay ‘1 wi11’,
4 0ur uni0n,
1t tak35 a b050n 10v3, 1t tak35 a Hi995 B050n!





A scientific list




> View the comic version here

As some day it may happen that a victim must be found,
I've got a little list, I've got a little list,
of intellectual offenders who might well be underground,
and who never would be missed, who never would be missed!

There's the idiot reviewer who's completely lost the plot,
you can count on one hand all the brain cells that he's got,
and the health and safety courses that just make you want to cry,
that only make you look up all the rules you can defy,
and the stroppy student know-it-all who simply wont desist,
they'd none of them be missed, they'd none of them be missed!

He's got them on the list! He's got them on the list!,
And they'd none of them be missed! They'd none of them be missed!

The student in denial with his head stuck in the sand,
for the deadlines he has missed, oh he is on the list,
and the postgrad who decided to do referencing by hand,
then asked me to assist, their name is on the list!
There's the piece of kit that never works when visitors come round,
yet when they leave, try as you might, there's no fault to be found,
and when you call up tech support to ask how to proceed,
it takes an hour before you hear the option that you need.
The supervisor always on your back 'til you submit,
they'd none of them be missed, they'd none of them be missed!

He's got them on the list! He's got them on the list!,
And they'd none of them be missed! They'd none of them be missed!)

The administration obstacles you're forced to run around,
on which they all insist, I've got them on the list,
and the progress tracker systems for which answers must be found,
should frankly be dismissed; I've got that on the list!
There's the thesis draft you sent your boss for her to have a read,
who's notes look like the scrawlings of a spider high on speed,
and the irritating postgrad who's submitted right on time,
a breed that should be punished for committing such a crime.
The publication times as fast as continental drift,
they'd none of them be missed, they'd none of them be missed!

He's got them on the list! He's got them on the list!,
And they'd none of them be missed! They'd none of them be missed!)

The undergrad who thinks that you are at their beck and call,
but leaves early to get pissed, I've got him on the list,
and the ones that think the TA's should give answers to them all,
and when snubbed are simply miffed, I've got them on the list.
The student who assumes it's fine to reference from the net,
who hands in lines of URLs, and thinks it's all correct,
and the email you sent to your boss, he never got to read,
because he's wading through the spam to find the one he needs.
That irritating software written by a scientist,
they'd none of them be missed, they'd none of them be missed!

He's got them on the list! He's got them on the list!,
And they'd none of them be missed! They'd none of them be missed!

The undergrads who prance around the lab without their coats,
as if no rules exist, I've got them on the list,
and the orders that they won't process until they've got three quotes,
to their mills it's simply grist, They're surely on the list.
There's the one collaborator who will never send his share,
political connivances that simply do not care,
and the data you collected, and kept safely on a drive,
corrupted now you need it, and with no way to revive.
The social and the work life that refuse to co-exist,
they'd none of them be missed, so I'll put them on the list!

You may put them on the list! You may put them on the list!,
And they'd none of them be missed! They'd none of them be missed!





Inversion of Life





Life seems to be an endless loop of success and failure
Initialised at random, odds are stacked against us
Ill-posed, ill-conditioned

At different speeds, with different beginnings and different ends
Travelling through a unique path, converging onto a fleeting solution
Some days, some years

Duly defined it becomes effortlessly virtuous
Governed by identity, prioritised to an ending
Unambiguous, uncomplicated

Alas many are driven by misplaced values and flawed boundaries
Misguided by poor regularisation, led to local minima
Ineffective, insignificant





The Student Scientist Awakes





Is that an exothermic reaction in my chest,
Or am I going to be sick?
Was I mixing chemicals last night,
Or perhaps it was drinks?
I think the latter.
My head’s spinning like a quantum state.
My memories, a sea of dark matter.
I want to go get water but my bed holds me tight;
My duvet is the event horizon.
No progression, just a painfully pounding prefrontal cortex.
My room-mates are not going to be happy about all the mess.
Could I get away with blaming entropy for the disorder?

I don’t care what chemist say,
Ethanol and water is not a solution.





Why problems are no longer a problem





A ray of light travelling faster than imaginable,
Slow compared to the infinitude of what’s conceivable,
While integers explain the secrets of our domain,
Solutions can be multiple, single or the same.

As many complexities as tangents to a circle,
Work long and hard, you will not be misled,
So remember when you face your next hurdle,
The problem in front of you, is all in your head.





The Engineer




I have known a curious artist,
who is hopeless writing novels,
calls music to the sound of a train
and dances worst than a robot under the rain.

This clumsy without a computer cannot survive,
but with his mind, his heart and a little of math,
he makes creations using steel,wires and maybe matlab,
making the world better for us, my dear friend, the engineer.





Wind





The first, I did not realise
the second, for a diversion
the third, the fourth and the fifth by inertia
the sixth and the seventh for curiosity
the eighth too.

That is how I let the wind
scatter my pages.





Fossilised Flower




Preserved in time forever, a photo of the past.
Surviving heat and pressure, my love for you will last.

Prepared to wait indefinitely, for what I’ve always wanted;
Eternally enduring, I’ll be perpetually haunted.





The Balance of Power




The Mother guides,
The Child
ignores,
Nature provides,
But Mankind has wars.

The scene is set,
The actors rehearse,
The play is for life,
On this changing earth.

Power to change,
In your hand and mine,
No limit or range,
'cept that of time.

Earth, wind, water and fire,
Elements to give man his desire,
Energy needs, consumption increased,
Act now or millions deceased.

So many turbines encircle the planet,
Tides of change to save it or damn it!
Fission or fusion in doughnuts replace,
Carbon taking the solution from space.
Question time is now,
All Man must ask,
Reduce Energy, but how?
We all have this task,
Stop racing with rats,
Look round to see,
Act now, there is no Plan B!





Broken days





Tears build in my eyes,
sadness makes its way through my heart,
days pass by,
uncertainty seems best.

Do you think about me,
while I think about you,
inside of this room,
outside on the street,
with walls around me,
or nothing at all.

Bittersweet feelings,
that just won’t go.
Your name is your ghost,
and I long for..

The sight of your eyes
and there is always a fight,
when I realize,
my imagination
is the only place you are.

Perhaps one day,
I will get luckier,
perhaps I will stop,
I hope I can stop.





Ode to the Scientist




We continue to sip from the sap of our minds
Forgetting that the heart is brimming with finds

Drilling to depths, soaring to heights
Our minds illuminate the connecting lights

A bridge is built, as another falls
Fate still responds to Mother nature’s calls

Our distant descendants look on in derision
At a surgeon about to make the wrong incision

A processing mind is the powerhouse, it's memories - the storage
The withering winds of time wears them down like old knowledge

Yet the energy remains glowing within to unify the lot
Can it help us in connecting the luminous dots?

The enduring spirit still beckons, housed safely in its enclosure
Gently but fervently pining it waits for its exposure

The heart still harbours some secrets, from science, within
O when will we wander so joyfully in…





Second year hindsight





I wanted to do a PhD in science,
If only I'd known of the defiance.
That some nights would bring,
And the hours of tinkering,
With many a high tech appliance.





Mathematical Beauty




Take a look at a sunflower, what do you see?
A few bright petals and food for a bee?
Look a bit closer at the spirals inside
Because you’ve found a place where maths chose to hide.

Count the seeds that are winding anti-clockwise
Then the other way too, now here’s the surprise
The numbers you get, they will always be
Two terms from the sequence of Fibonacci

Take the two numbers, decide which is bigger
Divide by the smaller and you’ll have a figure
A lot like the number that we like to call
The Golden Ratio - a perfect proportion to all

For the leaves of a plant to get the most light
This ratio is used to keep each leaf in sight
For the angle at which the leaves spread around
Divide degrees in a circle by the ratio found

This is one place of many where maths plays a part
As well as appearing in music and art
Look all around you, it’s easy to see
How beautiful mathematics can really be.





Getting Old





The thing you get even you don't want.
Taking responsibility of yourself and behaviour.
Many things to give up.
But, Spring came to your heart.
Your life actually started.
You learn, improve, satisfy.
And, find yourself with happiness.





Why do geologists like rocks?




They are hard, solid and sometimes salty,
Depending on what you see, sometimes they are faulty.
They show no failure if soft,
Brittle and they fault a lot.

A dyke may intrude,
where you will not see crude.
All sedimentary structures seen before,
Must be gone by law.

When sediments are put to bed,
You won’t see arsenic or even lead.
If lucky metamorphism occurs and you will see Cummingtonite,
You will be sure to infer it will have orthorhombic anthophyllite.

I’m sure you will have a gneiss day,
Especially if you spend it with Ray.
Don’t let a geologist drive your car,
Because they always get hammered and stoned at the bar.

Sorry for wasting your time, but geologists love to rhyme.
Geologists have to look at a lot of schist, especially when writing their diss.
My final line and I must say, I hoped you enjoyed this and have a super wicked gneiss day.





The last poem





Just like a billion transistors,
On a single chip.
Boys flung around you,
and your lovely hip.

Just like a silver pony,
With alluring hands and willowy feet.
You walk around my world,
Like current flows in a closed circuit.

Just like the infinite universe,
With trillions of planets and uncountable stars.
I see the depth of your eyes,
With a thousand hopes and as many scars.

Just like the solar flares,
With devastating heat and unimaginable radiance.
I see your dazzling beauty,
Often thinking how to minimise the distance.

Just like the parallel plate capacitor,
With miles of separation and tons of dielectric in between.
I stare at you from a distance,
Waiting patiently to be seen.

Just like the supernova of a star,
This is the last poem I contrive.
I give myself to you,
And in your life my infinite dreams shall remain alive...





Its all about ....... Aint it ?




It's all about Carbon Dioxide, aint it ?
But the tides waves and the sun could restrain it,
We need the oil, the gas and coal, don't we ?
A little bit of control and help from nature could sustain thee.

A bit of converters here, a dash of efficiency there,
A lot more smartness, a lot less building heat to care,
Voila, we would have a world which is clean and fair.

A Low carbon world, we aspire to live in,
Green thats the color, the world needs to be painted in,
Its all about us, aint it, to care,
If only we found it feasible enough to dare.





Engineering the Future





This poem, you will sing.
What will the future bring?

Prosperity or extinction. It’s hard to say.
Let’s focus technology in a righteous way.

Political borders for primitive minds.
Remove the iron curtains and open the blinds.

We all share planet earth, the same boat.
Now lets realise this and stay afloat.

Maybe the system is out of date.
And our understanding and technology has moved on mate!

Lets now stop wasting our planet away.
Design a new tomorrow and every other day.

Come forth the new generation.
Let us change our civilisation.

A system which sustains the human race.
A prosperous existence for everyone in this place.





Alone and Together




Accelerating to tomorrow
With purpose, yet lost
On paths that run parallel
Though never do cross.

But we are all mysteries,
Connected and sewn
Together, like equations,
All unknown.





Love Is Blind





Roses are not red.
Violets are not blue.
Light has no colour,
but somehow you do.





Loving You




Loving you is like being in a spectrum full of colour
Each moment brings a different length of waves of joy and pain, happiness and sorrow;
But if I had to choose which colour I love the most,
You have had me tongue-tied, for without one, there will be none at all;





Sonnet 4-1





Progress when time is twenty-twenty four,
With curiosity leading the way,
Humankind shall not cease from our explore.

In alliance, further still we will soar,
With one-way tickets all aboard will stay,
Resettlement’s our species guarantor.

To occupy the fourth rock from the sun,
Want of greatness is our inspiration,
With nerve and bravery we will traverse.

Once complete, is our journey just begun?
Empire for a future generation,
Or, disease disperse through our Universe?





Atomic Bonding




The sky is falling down soon,
I can already feel my engine burning,
Maybe I shouldn’t have been drinking.

It’s too late now, I’m ready to party
My knees are weak, my vision’s blurry,
Her eyes reflect the moon.

My sensors detect an unknown feeling
Should I engage or release, my clutch doesn’t know,
My heart sucks, squeezes, bangs and blows,
It’s my chance, she’s got me overheating.

My pistons are driving me crazy,
I never thought she would do that to me,
It’s clear now; tonight she’s the one that can drive me.

After dark, under the strobe light,
Fully oiled, I’m ready to ignite,
The dancing is well smooth, she noticed,
There is no time to loose, I’ve already decided,
I’m not mistaking the brake and the accelerator,
You’ve already activated my motor.
Till morning, I’ll make you swing...
The robot dance is always a win!





Physics is easy





There once was a young lad who did physics
Who found all the work quite terrific
The equations intense
And didn't make sense
They turned out to be Hieroglyphics





Streak of hope





Looking out into the light so bright,
Waves of confusion, blur, noise,
Unwilling to give in to the forces of nature,
Holding on to what once was,the initialised state, the beginning of the end,
Unaware of the fact that maybe she was not charged enough for the load she was about to carry.

Panting, worried, lost and confused,
The tears rolling down her cheeks just acting as mediums for electrical torture,
As she pushes through the infinite resistance, her courage is induced,
Slowly she starts to fathom the light ahead of her,
Only to realise, the shining light illuminated from her soul.





The Death of Tragedy





Birth of rationality,
Starting from Socratic sobriety,
Work deep into the void night.
Inspiration. Behold the shrouded light!
Celebrate discovery.
Joy that requires days recovery.
Return. More darkness awaits.
Behold these, our turbulent, winding fates.
Hoard knowledge. Seek remedy.
Play the Dionysian comedy!





The leftover




Of what is left with the time still rolling
I tried covering my feelings for you with my bare hands
The days we had were gone
Passing like electricity without proper insulation
It goes on and on

Thus I swam deep

Deep enough to not be seen
Deep enough to not be hurt

The cold nights
The occupied mind
Hard enough to fall asleep
And am bothered much to be awake
To continue the morning rituals

Looking into my own heart
I look for traces of happiness

This ain't an easy struggle
So hold me God





Shiver




At night, I cried to God
Covering the trembling sound with a pillow

Pushing away the miseries
An ocean of unpleasantries
Thought I was going to be fine
But shivers got to my spine

For I, could no longer bear
This word searching sickness

As darkness hugs me cold
I sense some fears though being bold
The coldness bite my soul
For desiring to be whole.





If we could only




It would be pleasing, if we could only
Learn a bit more hydrogeology
So let us show some appreciation
When we make our observations
For water with a superpower ability
To reduce a rock to dissolution and fissility

It acts as a catalyst for recrystallization
The chief transport agent in sedimentation
Bearing in mind, it is essential for vitality
Always affected as expected by gravity
You can never know the wonders water may hold
An oyster with a pearl, a stream deposit of gold
We can control the direction of contaminants
Or discover palaeogeographical evidence

Water forms the landscape, a dominating force
Cutting through the hillside on a predetermined course
The glaciated valleys, eroded long ago
Humongous mountain ranges, blanketed in snow
Epic waterfalls of unimaginable proportions
Attracting wide eyed tourists, from each and every nation

As hydrologists protect it, we’re easily excited
But such a precious item, is easily exploited

Next time you swim, or wash, or drink
Or complain because of rain
Just imagine, have a think
If you couldn’t swim, wash or drink
Or eat your food when crops couldn’t grow
Because water was a thing unknown
And remember how we are so lucky
To have this precious, natural beauty.





Land of Periodicity





Beyond the hills the sun did rise,
Illuminating darkened skies,
Trees blossom, whilst petals open
Wind stroked grass in swaying motion
In this sweet land of mass
Another night has come to pass
The morning has dawned, the scene is set,
A story begins, untold as of yet.
Tis the kingdom of atoms,
(One hard to fathom)
Inhabited by nuclei
Hard to imagine, but please do try!
The king and queen, are in nature tame
Helium and Argon to be their name.
For centuries ruled by noble gases,
The periodic kingdom’s upper classes…
Stiff and stable, the nobles do not budge,
Conservative; react not to push nor nudge.
Though a scandal does exist,
Concealed in propaganda mist.
Their eldest daughter, pretty xenon,
Eloped with lover; upped and gone!
Which element be her charmer though?
Fluorine! Clan Halogen’s hero!
A roguish fellow, and slight crook
Electron thief, his victims shook…
Delicate Xenon has fallen victim
To Fluorine’s electronegative dictum.
But the Halogens, interestingly,
Have a peculiar feuding history
They are the family Capulet
To the alkali metal Montague threat.
With violent clashes on every occasion,
In greatest climax property invasion!
Exothermic battles have been fought
Between these tribes, and all for nought!
The Alkali’s cousin of earthen descent,
On Halogen’s demise they too are bent
Grave upon grave in lattice pattern
Never ceasing; tide shows no sign to turn…
Leaving the keep and towards the square
One is greeted with trumpet blare
The general hubbub of market traders
And pickpocket lone pair raiders,
The likes of Hydrogen, deft and sleight;
Snitches and thieves that rule the night.
Stalls are safe, during the day
Metal sellers with wares on display.
Market square, by the name of d-block
Teeming with bright and colourful stock
Busy Cobalt; red with water, or dark blue
With chlorine in oxidation plus two.
Sly Chromium bartered electrons three
In return for royal purple and green of pea.
It’s proved indeed by Nickel, Iron, Zinc and Copper
That variety can make a happy shopper.
Though the merchant with greatest wealth
Likened by the Nobles and kept in health
Similarly passive yet with personality bold,
Monogrammed A and U his name is gold!
Church bells ring and light recedes
As dusk descends and night proceeds
Seedy taverns and bars along the lane
Ignite lamps and shutter window pane.
Gang leader Carbons chair clandestine meetings,
Crooked Hydrogen split loot with underhand greetings.
Workers of the night open their doors
Oxygen molecules serving as whores.
Which elements have not had an oxide in their time?
Few let it be known, for it is a sordid crime…
The raucous din of nocturnal behaviour
Swallows the town from which there is no saviour,
But outside the walls and across the river
Where the animals don’t’ stray and the trees do shiver,
There resides heavy creatures
With as-of-yet undetermined features.
Rarely seen and commonly fabled,
As trolls and bandits they are labelled…
Time will tell of these minority’s fate,
For in this land it grows late.
The hour’s early and the townsfolk sleep,
Do not fret though as they will keep.
For centuries it’s been as it has today,
For centuries more it’ll will stay this way.
The periodic kingdom is rich and diverse
With boundaries spread round the universe…





Grey-ness




It's getting harder each passing days,
as I can't breathe normal

Promises that were never made, and the words left hanging
Stuck in the throat

The coffee went cold
The cakes never arrived
The instrument got broken
The surrounding turns grey

Missing several pages of the books
I no longer had the ability to focus well

With just shades of the spectrum
What's left were only the uncertainties
Of life and death

Slowly,
everything just fell apart and drifted away

And so did you.





Almost love




Thinking of you late at night
I saw the moon peeking out for us
Reaching outside, chills brought to my bones

Like being in rounded bowl
Going round and round in circular motion
Creating waves of feelings here and there
Year by year, then disappear

In the night
At the sound of silence
I bit my tongue and hold my breath
Trying to measure the possibilities
Of the almost love feelings
Calculated back then

This madness is softly killing me





Derelection





Silence falls
Devastation complete
Not even foundations left
To attest to what used to be

Walls surround
cracked and crumbling
vain protection against
The horrors that lie behind

Wind that used to whisper,
vector of my muse,
Now rages, destructive
filled with dark intent

Death camps at my doors
Illness and poverty never far
Now nature joins the fight
Structural collapse my plight

Yesterday the ground shook
Today the waters come
Shear failure now eminent
I flee, current status: refugee

What good are drawings and calcs
when materials lack
How to build foundations strong
upon unconfident ground

My home lies in taters
Foreign aid floods in
For once without request
And I have to ask

"Must we lose all
before you'll answer our call?"





Soul Meets Body.




I am a High frequency, High amplitude vigour
Great beating like the culmination of waves travelling
Intensity like sound and light
A new interface bending the apex of space time with body and finger tips
Those words roll off your tongue, diffracting through the gaps in my body
I refract your laser snipered insults
And reflect back the virtual mirror of your myriad existence

The you now on the accelerating bullet
Floating in the distance, seeing me not as I am
A barely physical thought, anthropomorphised
The centripetal forcing bend that accelerates you into my orbit
Lightly floating photons excited into infinity, I feel you inside me
The hot exhalations of your body heaving
Beads of nectar rolling down your face
I spin and twirl, our wavefronts, synching into secondary wavelets of ecstatic entropy
The damping of our harmonic rhythms slowing with periodic sighs
We stagger off into quarkic oblivion.





MATLAB Haiku




Oh it doesn’t work
MATLAB froze the computer
Curses, back to C.





The Bones of the Earth





A rich seam of tinfoil and contact lenses
Records a vain empire of greed and paper.
A thousand marks of gorging cut deep but
The bones of the Earth are made of sterner stuff.
Inscribed in dirt is a rich tale of creation
But no-one will analyse the downfall of man;
A speck of dust in a library of unread tomes.
We will not endure.





A break from lab





With pen on paper is sought the truth,
A fascination inspired from youth.

How finely the heav’ns this world created,
That imbalance in matter is all that abated,
The endlessness that else would appear,
From universe’s end, to beginning, to here.

A source of dreams gilt in golden hues,
Extolling the love of science and her virtues.





Infinitus Physikos





Here, we are strange superfluities
Alive, able-bodied, but still no idea
of an entire rationale of existence

Here, we can qualm our reality
Assist when somebody has a fear
But still no idea, of the incessant caverns of the Unknown

There, naive innocents plummet into the praying snare
of the hooded moths scrambling and screaming
injecting their arbitrary units of conned phenomena.

From that imprudent call of conflict
came the waiting separation of fuming
civilisations skirmishing with diverse fraudulant ideas of humanity.

Countless Epiphanies anon... ~

Now, the perimeter breached and the truth is scared
A phenomenon with a Scientia thats structuring,
Structuring an entire new understanding of the universal Black

Shadows afraid, light is coming,
A fresh nebula is on the verge of forming a star
No burning remnant though, a spark of Genius
A patient discovery in the inter-dimensional heavens

We're not leading a recline of false reality,
We are walking on the roof of a revolution.
And the door is just waiting, waiting for the decent Einstein
To tremble on all quantum secrets that secrete in that breathing paradox
And connect with the unconnectable...

...before long, the impossible will be the probable.





The Rainbow




In times when many feared,
The bow of a saviour appeared.
Bright with colour and wonder,
Strength and courage for those feeling asunder.

Through the clouds and out of the rain,
A colourful spectacle appeared to ease the pain.
Colours of the sky and colours of the ocean,
Blended together to inspire great emotion.

It rose out of the puddles and the flood,
Filling the sky with life and new blood.
Never ceasing to amaze,
Never failing to catch a gaze.

Inspiration by
a phenomenon set apart,
Catching the hearts of science and art.
Complexity and simplicity in one,
A beauty under the sun.

Increasing amazement with each closer stare,
A great ponder for those who dare.
The laws of maths governs it curves,
It shows the majesty of physics which its arch preserves.

It holds strong in times of peace and war,
The eyes of both pacifists and soldiers saw.
A silent monument of brilliance and tranquility,
A reminder of the power of humility.

Out of the ashes came the mythical bird of fire,
A fairy tale that helps many to aspire.
This is a wonder that rises from the water,
A real bow that saves hearts and minds from slaughter.





Asymmetry




Consistent time is?
To us it may seem
As we spin our axis
Oblivious as a dream





The power of imagination




This page has purposely been rendered blank.
The poem has been left to the readers imagination.
It is as good as you want it to be.
So let your imagination take over and unleash the poet within you.





You're Just A Bug





No matter the hours in the depths of my mind,
The endless, fruitless analysis.
Is the problem fundamental in the system?
Or is it just a missed semicolon?
You’re just a bug in my program.
Seriously, fuck off.





THE CYCLE




Walking through the alley at the dead of a starry night

Utopian thoughts of travelling faster than light

Humans quantum jumping might just be whimsically right

But then again it is a mare dream at night

Up and bustling on sizzling morning tea

Reflections scattered as waves on a turbulent sea

No coursework! – That’s a very honest plea

“Heck!” that thought just ruined my honey sweetened Lipton tea

Shrugging and sobbing to a donnish 9 o’clock class

If only attendance will procure a paltry pass

Suddenly! He bellows that Energy is all about mass

Thankfully I’ve got just one more class

Tick tock and it’s already noon

Enigma café briefly then across to George-Begg soon

Packed to capacity but I find a space to avoid impending coursework doom

5 hours gone and there; a glimpse of a gibbous moon

Oh what a gruesome day it has been

As I trot en route home via the “5th Ave” scene

Hopes of a revered Friday fulfill my being

Till then, I’ll return to my dream

BY: ADEWALE OLUWATERU





A different kind of brave





Oh how old you have become
In these ten years of eternity
Since that day you took my hand
In the loosest grip that would hold me forever

You, the parent of the child
I, the child of the parent
Connected by the silent thunder
Of the storm after the calm

His black thoughts had smashed him dead
In a cowardly, courageous act
You stared into nothingness
Your baby succeeded where your husband failed

Now strangers judged us on what he had done
They made you empty, eyes hollow with shame
For your young men were a different kind of brave
And your generation never speaks of the self-destructive elephant in the room

Science pushes the boundaries between life and death
Redefines the limits of human accomplishment
But it cannot defy the autonomy of who we are
It can never protect us from ourselves





Workhorse




Beast lies broken floored at the boots,
Motored. Rotored.
Burnished bronze.
Ravaged. Damaged. All spun out.

Powerless weathered rained in rust,
Fatigued. Cracked. All opened up.
Strained. Drained. Squealing seals.

Life now over served till the final,
Magnetised. Desensitised. Last revolution.
Coasting down. Slow right down. Isolation.





Rains We Prayed For





Stumbling through the crisp wind, cringed,
Winter afar and grasses swaying,






Wild tufts verdant, their deep roots hinged,
The fields now violently fraying

The rebellious revolt of wind
Puffs of white now grey,



















The petrichor I cannot rescind
There will be no whey

This Summer.

The burst louder than the screams
The monsoon more pervasive than it seems

Floods of water
Floods of fear
Floods of blood
Floods so dear

Respite from dry decay
Stomachs envisioned empty
It took my house away
Will my crops be aplenty?





i




My love for you is exponential,
For which there is limitless sum,
No pair nor thatch, so equally matched,
As you, and root negative one.

Then thrown away for but a sine,
Oh how we play these games with mathematical minds.





Beginning of end




At the end of all limits
Is found the start of the end
Of a place with no exits
A road with no bend





Me




Apparently i'm something called a human
I thought I was a result of fusion
Mistaken in a world ran by hooded moths
And guided to reality by prestigious proffs





Imprisoned




Incarcerated by a layer of compressing cloud
I sit in the window
Compelling my frown
Confuzzling how far I cannot see
How dazzling it would be
to look straight back at me.





Answer?




This isn't a figure of writing
or a lagging speech
What I am saying,
is a question we all must breach.





Realism




The pluralistic rationalism
is a deed that must be done,
But the mingled method
Leaves a stung sour taste on my tongue





Quantum Leap




To conceive such a perception
one must rise from the macrocosm of inter-reality
ones mind must eliminate that fashion for ration
And permit the theory of cruel curiosity





Spacium Caelum





We are amongst eternal eternity
We are living in profound perpetuity

Are we random consequences
Of random events in a random cosmos

Do we have a significant purpose
Or are we ineffectual until we are carcases

Is the truth so close and parallel
Yet unreachable and we’re powerless to tell

If we stare so far into there
The vision is beauty, but past that’s a glare

We barely distinguish the place we name home
And are fragile to the forces of strange obscurity

Our world could collide with a demonic
Abomination of fatality and terror

Yet we strive to dither
From our delicate sensitivity

But the hooded moths come screaming
And scrambling, envious of intelligence

Here comes the sound, of raging epiphanies
And they will banish all new branches

Till the truth is apparent, they will


Marcus Anthony Trinder
2011





Physikos Lex




In a world so sparse of understanding
Our imagination is suspending

We venture to craft hyperbolas
Amid Subterranean laws of universal cupolas

Of relativistic phenomena’s
That multitude our minds like hyenas

Using the calculus of mathematical genius
We can portray anything from Venus

To the incessant foundries of dimensions
To rest our struggled intentions

The era of unearthing is tense
Awakening the vortex of intelligence

The Universum enhanced brain
Pursuits the hooded moth in lane

A Vector reveals a centum of guise
And take reality from the sanctum of flies


Marcus Anthony Trinder
2011





Aqua





We breathe in a world of aquatic accretion
Our means of existence acquires assimilation

We breach our own beneficial basins
To our braided stream of parched assassins

We aggravate its calmness with cavitation
And take control with channelization

Our gentle deformation of the god-like liquid
Dances a degradation of hydration

It’s dynamically destructive force
Creates hydraulic havoc along it’s course

It floods us with a flume of flowing fortune
And livens the hydrology of a living monsoon

The impoundment of inclusive power
Lies within the interstices of the liquidised flower

Meteoric meanders model it’s magnitude
Into the municipal porosity of the humans feud

Marcus Anthony Trinder
2011





SOMETIMES





Sometimes it is not so easy to say
What you feel
And much less find the right words
So I hide in the letters
To bare my feelings
Perhaps it is easier to mourn in
A sentence
And loving you in a verse
That looking into your eyes
And saying
I love you





Indefinitely Undefined Love





Love is the product of zero and infinity.
Love is undefined indefinitely.
Love has no limit and it knows no boundary.
Love is ultimately unique and will vary between you and me.





A Knife's Edge





The follies of man,
Cast into light,
Fickle in time,
Devoid of might,

On a knife's edge we sit,
Of chance values persist,
Imprudent to deny,
Our luck in cosmic die,

The hu'ble mind sees farthest:
That we should remain,
On this Earthly grain,
That we should remain, a gift





University





University:
Revise, study, plagerise;
For a good degree.





Engineering and Science





These subjects are fun,
Engineering and science,
The rest? Don’t Bother





Of coffee and poetry





I hold my coffee mug tightly
I took a sip from one second to the next
It was pitch black inside
As deep as what my thoughts had been

To search for the hidden poetry in your eyes
Is like scanning over scattered books
In large crowded bookstores

But love,
You're my source of pleasure
Physics can never explain the chemistry of you and I

Being so used to melancholia
Patiently I waited year by year

As the coffee ran dry
There were stains
Circling the insides of the mug

Thus, even if my feelings went dry
There will still be traces of them
Left, lingers in your heart





Utmost desire





I look outside the window today
I saw flowers blooming
The green grass
The blue skies

The rays of the sun touch my skin
Here and there I walk and spin
Followed by an identical twin

But in the dark
Even my own shadows are gone

Days without you
Are full of endless thoughts and unstoppable pain

The cloud in front spread wild
There were three visible colours at the end of the sky
Blue, yellow and indigo
Perhaps I should just go
And leave with the memories still within you

Then, you're going to remember me by heart





Materials Matter




There are so many elements about and around,
We find them in the air, the sea and the ground.
Some of them are metals, and some are ceramics.
But how are they different? What adds this dynamic?
The answers electrons; they’re the source of it all.
And how they’re bound to a nucleus that is small.
The electrons configure – no need for a mess –
In shells that we call ‘s’, ‘p’, ‘d’ and ‘f’.
How the shells interact is what gives a rise
To the behaviour of matter - not only their size.
Electrical conductance - thermal as well!
Mechanical properties – does that ring a bell?
Opaqueness and colour, lest we forget.
All from electrons – there’s so much we get.
Materials matter, it helps us advance
Society forwards so give it a chance.
We need to research more, there’s so much we don’t know.
So pick up your microscope and give it a go.





Rainbow




The sun rises, at the peak's sight;
Provides shades, heat and light;
Upon a man who works over the daylight;
To raise one's life according to his might.

It's coming, unexpectedly;
The watery droplets, falling showers;
As the dark clouds emerged abruptly;
And the sun, hiding its face,

Then, it's gone instantly;
Wetting the soil in humidity;
The dark sky is fading away,
The white clouds reappear with the ray.

It's a metaphor of life;
There will be a miracle;
As a rainbow appeared with its colourful lines;
Upon the sky high with its parabolic smile.

Don't fret nor afraid;
with every difficulty you face,
comes with it an ease;
because He always be with you, day and night,
and always keep in mind that;
no matter if it's a streamline or a flood terrain,
there's always a rainbow comes after the rain.





Life




Life is all about 0's and 1's,
At times it seems to be analogue and at times digital.
We often tend to look at the negative flags and neglect the positive flags;
Much like the three stage phase system, we too have three stages in our life.

We enter this world like bundles of joy and simplicity.
Each protector strives hard to create a prototype who attains success.
But Alas! a prototype is a prototype and not all work.
Striving and enjoying we learn and move forward through our childhood phase.

Just like the approach to the solution of an integration problem,
We lead our own path and try to find a solution.
We constantly learn and thirst for knowledge.
After gaining enough experience, we unleash our lethal C.V and try to conquer.

Beyond a certain age variable, we tend to find ourselves in a continuous for loop.
With the body of the loop being nearly constant and incrementing age
In the realm of competition, the common man is driven mad as every program one writes tries to outdo the other.
Our stress and strain increase proportionally till our yield point is reached.

Finally our age variable reaches a point where we have to retire to peace.
Throughout our journey we have often ventured into the shadows of our past,
Often recollecting and retrospecting certain key decisions made.
But like all great softwares, we come to an end after passing on our legacy.

With little or no regret, the true freedom of peace is finally bestowed upon us.
And we lie beside our maker in total bliss.





A Fibres' Stanza





We are not alike, high strength fibres!
Moaned you, a soft charming thermoset.
Yet autoclave cured cylindrical love
hold cross-linked romance irreversibly
veiled by resistance gloss belly
coalesced of our heterogeneity
in a bulk composite of unity





Mind Pollution





Your voice fades through static photons,
caffeine and white-hot distractions,
dull alarms, some tangled neurones,
throbbing music and limp earphones.
Your words repeat, words repeat, words
don't sink in, and sound so absurd.
What was the last question you asked?
Light bulbs drill holes, everything blurs,
reflects from the glass I stare through.
The people are dolls, even you,
as your thin voice wavers away,
while someone sings in the background.
You say your father has died and I
feel nothing, feel nothing for you.





The Dull Pencil Lead





There on her finger!
She’s waving it gracefully above her head.
The Dazzling Dwarf Diamond, still bigger-
cost than my dull pencil lead.

Why am I not worth as much?
Is it the stain from my touch?
Are we that different? Only allotropes,
Graphite…Diamond. Subtle difference I hope.
I create knowledge, communication.
Innovation!
No mere materialistic obsession!
No blood-drenched rivers of Sierra-Leone,
I humbly historify sins we must atone.
It does fill me up with rage,
while scribbling scars on this empty page,
that our main priorities,
lie with such lavish frivolities.

Though I am a Dull pencil lead,
Screw the diamond. Shouldn’t you sharpen me instead?





TIme of the Year





Poetry Contest?
I should be doing coursework...
Procrastination!





Monday Morning





You sit just three tiers down, not knowing.
My attraction to you, like gravity, stretches over infinite distance.

But your attraction to me is like the gravition:
Theoretical.





The Fresher Physicist of Manchester




With my lab partner Big D,
I calculated Big G,
The results were dodgy,
Manipulation was key,
Looked stuff up on wiki,
‘cos it was too damn tricky,
Why, oh, why gravity,
Do you do this to me?

When it came to oscillations,
Feynman was inspiration,
Damped or forced no hesitation,
I was filled with anticipation,
Then I started on vibration,
I didn’t get the formulation,
Nor the Q factors implications,
Until I solved the differential equations.

I spend my time in Schuster,
Don’t need no calculator,
Built a telescope on the first floor,
Spied the planet known as Jupiter,
Here in sunny Manchester,
Cox don’t have all the power,
Splits it with Forshaw and Loebinger,
They got some prime numerical banter;

We all have that physics swagger.





MOTHER OF LIFE





MOTHER OF LIFE

You will always be appreciated.
When I was young, my mama and I had altercations
though back at time, I never thought I'd see her face
no single woman alive that could take my mother's place.
Suspended from school, scared to go home, I was a fool
hung around the wrong crowds, breaking all sorts of rules.
I would shed tears with my little Brother over the years, the struggle continued.
When things went wrong, we'd blame mother
I recall on all the stress I caused, it was hell.
You always were a queen, Mother
and I finally understand, for a woman
it isn't easy trying to raise a man, you always were committed
There's no way I can ever pay you back
but the plan is to show you I finally understand, you are appreciated.

I sit back and I reminisce, because through all the drama
I can always depend on mother.
And when it all but seems that I'm hopeless
you say the words that can lift me back in focus.
As a very sick child, to keep me smiling
there was no limit to the things you did and all my childhood memories
are full of sweet things you did for me.
And even though I acted selfish, I have to thank the Lord that you made me
no words can express how I feel, and I appreciate how you raised me.
I wish I could take the pain back, if we made it through the night, we can make it through brighter days.
There's no way I can ever pay you back
but the plan is to show you I finally understand, you are appreciated and will always be loved.





When Newton meets Poisson





It's just a design question,
full with figurative information,
solved by numerous equation,
only to find it's out of solution.

I Campbell-eve he's leaving,
Such an exciting lesson, taught creatively,
He's very good at teaching,
We have taken him for Grant-ed, unfortunately.

When Newton meets Poisson,
their creativity sparked, like a glowing tungsten,
Discovering theory in harmonisation,
Helping community and the country in return.





Disasters





Women at the engineering, why? because they are only ones who can fix everything even natural and man-made Disasters.





On an Architrave





Μηδείς ἀγεωμέτρητος εἰσίτω μου τήν στέγην.

There was a time
a man could not step into the Academy
if he did not know how to read
the proofs of Euclid and the symbols of Pythagoras.


Ne ineat is qui litterarum lingua non loquitur.

There was a time
a man could not step into the Academy
if he did not know how to read
the prose of Galilei and the Latin of Newton.


A time when man,
striving for truth,
would walk many narrow paths,
trivia and quadrivia in the West
and in the East six-streets crossroads.


When did our tower fall?
When did our tongues get mixed and confused?
When did our ways part?


It is now a time
we drive along wide
one-dimensional highways.

A time in which
we wall our reason
and segregate our imagination.

In which we wall and segregate
ourselves.

As if a sky could be admired
contemplating only one shard of it,
As if light could be understood
appreciating only one of its colours,

As if Man could be
segregated and walled.


May we write on a hopeful architrave
to the halls of our Academies:

Here is welcome he who wishes to understand why stars shine.

Here is welcome he who wishes to understand who Man is.





Lonely




In electrical engineering I feel gay;
each and every single day;
there's no girls so i never get laid;
i just hope that one day i'll get paid.

I'm a poet and I didn't even realise;
oh Wendy Cope please show me the ropes;
oh Wendy Cope your my only hope.





For I am just eddies





Turbulence maybe too hard on you
Laminar seems too smooth for you
Yet, I’m lucky to have Venturi, the Captain Slow with me
So that I’ll be careful to not get carried away
I’m sorry orifice
It’s not that you’re not true to me
For I am just eddies
That sooner or later
Will be lost.
Do not push me too soon
I’m not a robot
Not an evaporator
With switches and buttons
Yeah, I’m not a robot
So don’t push me…
*Off*





A Hairy Limerick





Hair science is a great subject to rhyme,
Fascinating topics such as colour and shine,
I love getting lost in trichology,
Follicular science and technology,
Saving the world one fibre at a time!





Science





To see the impossible
To want the dream
To know that everything
Is not what it seems

To gaze upon the stars
And see the universe
To look at tiny atoms
And build things in reverse

The barriers knocked down
The limits set aside
Where new life can be given
And nothing really dies

To stand upon the brink
For all eternity
That's what science is
That's what made me





Giants





On the shoulders of giants
With the backing of a billion
Not a solitary trial
A collective
Together as one...

...we don't know shit.





Local Man Straps Himself To Tree





i don't want to live in a world where man kills man
where people witness genocide, emotionless
ctrl t new tab
where children cry out at night, waiting for a peace that will come just once
where stupidity and ignorance have destroyed ecosystems, driven species to extinction
where stupidity and ignorance are driving our species to extinction
i don't want to be a part of a civilisation whose demise is imminent
i know too much to belong to this

A bird perched nearby, overhearing, could not resist a reply

It is true what you say of this Earth, our home.
Since Eden man has but thirsted for power,
And without rest this shall continue to the final hour.
The few, like you, are left to continue, alone.
The evils of the Earth will forever ceaselessly roam.
Relations of men will tend invariably to sour.
Warring without rules we know we must scour;
However, so easy is this to forget in the comfort of the home…
Surrender not, young soul; you have still so much more to learn of this world.
You have not met the Riemanns and Rutherfords of your generation.
You have not lived life through the eyes of another, or visited another nation.
You have not lived through loss, found peace in mourning.
You have not understood the science of being, seen your humanness unfurled.
Most of all, you have not smelled the hair of your love on a sweet Sunday morning.

The bird snapped the tether free





The Dance of Shiva





Dancing along the galaxies, the universe at his mercy
For the dance which incites the ring of life
Must proceed for life to circle
He whom provides platform to universe's root,
Cannot help but extinguish his ignorance, the lord's dance
Relinquishes his snare of illusion
Bearing neither birth nor death, he is forever the creator and destroyer,
the preserver and concealer, the "omnipresent” revealer.
Evil cannot escape the rhythmic tunes of his actions, each sign of movement twitches on the heart of nature, awakening the unborn,
Awakening those from the far ends of the world,
Awakening those from the next world, and the next….and the next,
until finally awakening those at the summit of eternity
The sun whose energy transcends throughout the world bears the energy of the lord himself, for the end to this showpiece will ultimately be the end of life as we know it.





The Beautiful Equation





Figures jumbling across a vast ocean,
Tumbling, arranging themselves into patterns of meaning;
A sharp scratch there, adding,
A deletion, adding more in its absence
Or an edit, a rearranging, dividing confusion,
Creating something better, more perfect.
You wonder whether the perfect page exists.
Begin again, from the very start,
Building backwards and forward, creating
Something more perfect than before,
Striving for something most perfect of all;
Most airtight, clear, flowing,
Nothing more or less,
Always growing
Until it encompasses everything in its perfection;
A love letter, a poem, an equation.





Interrobang




Interrobang
And it's punctuation
Words, letters, meaning fiction
But not mathematics
What else explains friction
What else sends the statement
If i'm right then there's no turning back

Cold, calculating pencil pushing
What other way to design a bushing
Engineering or dream weaving

Take the things that make us tick
Outrageously boil down to quantum spin

Upside, downside, we live on a planet
Let's make a mark and take advantage





Desiderium





Nabu, Minerva, Reitia,
Custodians of lore,
I beseech you,
Reveal to me the Psyche of “all the fair existences of heaven”,
Of the hidden Birds and their Chirps,
Like an old pattern on a Persian carpet,
Like a curtain of Zodiac Signs.





Knowledge is Power




Knowledge is power,
Understanding it all,
Where did we come from,
Why do things fall?

Slaves to curiosity,
The killer of cats,
A need to know more,
Amass all the facts.

A noble pursuit,
Potential for prize,
A boon for humanity,
In most people’s eyes.

Where will it take us,
What will we gain,
Advanced society,
Removal of pain.

Increased production,
Better standard of living,
All hail science,
It never stops giving.

Cut down the forests,
Burn all the fuel,
These things are needed,
We are not cruel.

Knowledge is power,
We know it all,
Where did they come from,
Their countries must fall.

How did we get here,
It started so true,
Goals on a knife edge,
What will we do?

Addicted to knowing,
A dangerous lust,
Potential for wonder,
Turn cities to dust.





'g' is not just gravity





'g' is not just gravity,
Neither a universal commodity.
Which flows, propels, launches and establishes hegemony,
But it strums the strings of it's creator's melancholy.

It's just not an underlying principle for a gadget,
Rather it was passionately nourished by it's soulmate.
He had succumbed, suffocated and sacrificed to it in despair,
To give it to the world as a souvenir.

'g' is not just gravity,
It's a symbol of his profound spirituality.





My Haiku





Hailstones hit grass
Birds hide in vain
Aircraft roars a ferocious climb





Quantised Qualia





Photons grace our retinae, illuminating our occipital lobes since birth.
Covert custodians of all speeds known on Earth.
Humbly allowing us to fathom our existence and truly comprehend life’s net worth.


Huygens on one end, Newton on another, driven to a corner we were forced to pick a side.
Observing our zero-sum debate, Nature sat quietly in the corner; smiling, until the time was right.
She then whispered unto us, “You have no say in this; for it is your consciousness that will decide.”


Undeterred, we clove the atom asunder in an attempt to do Doctor Higgs proud.
13.7 billion years and the eleventh-dimensional superstrings had never shared a laugh this loud.
In with both feet yet we caused but a faint fray on the Quantum world’s shroud.


Ineffably enmeshed with the hologram of our illusion,
The inseparable subjectivity of perception served as anything but our solution.
So we began to celebrate praises for the journey and not the conclusion.


Oblivious to our imprisonment by empiricism from first light till bed.
Visitors to this strange spatiotemporal construct until our eulogies are read.
Only on our way home do we realise that this universe was all just in our heads.





Chewing It Over





An infant will happily take any object
Metal, wood or plastic, mineral, vegetable, and perhaps
most worryingly,
animal

And successfully place it
between its curious gums
Until it concludes that
what is in its mouth is, indeed,
in its mouth.

An adult will find this funny,
There is no foreseeable conclusion
worth knowing from this,
and that is funny
But the baby never stops.
Eventually, a baby will find not only that
the object in its mouth is, indeed,
in its mouth,
but the object - that is, indeed,
in its mouth -
is edible.

The adult’s scepticism of the baby’s tedious repetition,
falters swiftly with a single proven result.

The baby used what little it had
and found
food,
a fundamental conclusion.





Pick-Up Line





Hadn't Newton found the law of motion;
it would've still been valid.
Hadn't I admitted my feelings towards you;
they would've still existed.
Now that I've revealed my secret;
I tend to remain in the state of loving you.
Hence, for my daring action: will I get an equal and mutual reaction from you?





Falling in love





Science does not rhyme with obedience
That's why I will defy the physical laws
Win your heart falling into Newton's jaws
Despising Young with my resilience

As bewitched by the Leidenfrost effect
My mojo at Curie Temperature
Your heart will be cured from labile affect
Wriggling at its triple point of pleasure

Give me a proton, I am your electron
To make you feel completely ampholyte
No matter if our love is impolite

Be magnesium, I'll be the oxygen
Be coke, I will dare to be the Mentos
Geyser of lightning, our love is insane





Science is Us





Following the rabbit down the hole or up to the skies,
Struggling out of the cocoon like Absolem or a butterfly,
Taking a small step and man falls into the abyss of time,
A giant leap and we're closer to the sun than Icarus' try,
The uncertainty of 119; the beauty of the ratio and primes,
Abstracting away to see the unimagined possibilities of CGI.

It's curiosity, a blaze in the mind
It's to seek, and ye shall find
It's curiosity that killed the cat
It's curiosity that brought it back





As time flies.......





Success, Success, Success,
Client's needs multiplies
As time flies, do something or do nothing, the PM must decide
failure to document supplies, foreseen challenges arise
as time steadily flies

Pause…… No time, Client signs and nominates
Liability lies with the PM, like an enemy at the gate
No thought toward wishful thinking and hoping
The PM Sleeps with one eye open
Proclaimed king in the land of the blind
Thoughts of cost, scope and time
As time steadily flies

Prince II APMIC and PMI Conquests, Accolades:
Tools to bind and mind Risk register & Business case
Scheming on incentives & motivational Techniques
Dreams of Complex projects and high earnings
Weary of latent clauses to eliminate conflicts
Shaken by Sub-contractors
Awakened by contractors
Untangles from the covers to be entangled by the iron triangle
Steadily as the time flies





Message in a bottle





Here is my message in a bottle:
Written in java script,
set free by a press of “enter”.
Waves of quantum world probability bring it to you at the speed of light,
across domains far and wide, it travels till it reaches its final destination.
You have mail.





Duty





Scientists and mathematicians seek to unravel the mysteries of our world
Driving our understanding, the evocative tales of nature unwind
In the hearts of engineers dreams are knurled
Daring to dream higher, faster, stronger leaving the old world behind

Staring fearlessly into the harrowing fiend of impossibility
Beauty manifests not with a sweep of the brush or a score with the quill
But in a design solution swathed with simplicity
Architects of history with ferocious ambition and skill

To be human is to ask the questions how or why?
Yes our ambition burns but with knowledge we inherit a duty
Each year more frequent and stressed becomes our mother’s cry
Yet we continue to treat her with intolerable cruelty

Astonishing to behold what our descendants may open their eyes to find
Ignorance is bliss but any more could leave the whole world blind





A Form of Geology





Geology is all round you and me,
It tells us so much, don’t you see!
We will take you on an insightful journey,
Proving this subject is science worthy

Starting in the air,
We all are aware,
The weather takes hold,
But it can be foretold,
Better known as meteorology,
A form of geology

The ground beneath our feet,
Where one can find peat,
A source of raw power,
Supplying each kilowatt hour,
Better known as geomorphology,
A form of geology

Deeper into the earth,
Almost like a rebirth,
The discovery of coal,
Has an important role,
Better known as lithology,
A form of geology

Further into the crust,
A black liquid we lust,
The unearthing of oil,
To spark an ignition coil,
Better known as sedimentology,
A form of geology

As resources run low,
We start to show,
That our earth offers more,
Is fracking the cure?
Better known as hydrogeology,
A form of geology

We became a lot smarter,
Looking through the strata,
Diamonds were found,
Their beauty astound,
Better known as petrology,
A form of geology

Plates slide and crash,
Causing earthquakes to smash,
Tsunamis from the seas,
Bringing cities to their knees,
Better known as seismology,
A form of geology,

Volcanoes build and blow,
Unleashing a fiery flow,
Releasing ash and rock,
A volatile ticking clock,
Better known as volcanology,
A form of geology

At the centre is the core,
A dense metallic we are sure,
Surrounded by a magnetic field,
No human can dream to yield,
Better known as magnetology,
A form of geology

The fossils at which we stare,
Show what once was there,
From chordates to man,
We see evolutions plan,
Better known as palaeontology,
A form of geology

Far out into space,
Mysteries take place,
Creations elusive spark,
Dense matter in the dark?
Better known as cosmology,
A form of geology

A window into the past,
From even a lonely clast,
Answering life’s theories,
And day to day quires,
What else could it be?
GEOLOGY! don’t you see!





I Am The Musician




I am the musician.
Commander of a million dances.
My puppets upon a circus of air,
quiver in your ears.
Watch me
orchestrate an ocean of waves.
Kinetic gifts to ivory keys.
Release
Magnificent
Sound.





Life-clock





When we suppose that we will live until 80 years old,
When we suppose that our lives are the clocks,

1 year is 00:18 am
10 years is 03:00 am
My age is only 08:03am

Do you think it is too late?
It is still early morning.
It is not too late.

Never give up youths, and get up, youths on the bed!





Le tournesol





Light is a whisper that cherishes Nature
Giving birth on earth to every creatures
Shall they shine like treasures
Embracing light is my only pleasure





Meditations on solutions





Lifted by water,
in a random procession.
Bodies forced apart.

Embraced in liquid
by atomic asteroids.
Pelted and cradled.

Held in solution,
just like a star in the sky.
One among many.





Deadline





Woke up late again, wracked with stress
More focused on procrastination than tests
Lecturer warned four weeks in advance
Time has no patience no second chance

Out of ideas, faced with a blank page
Body is fragile, mind disengaged
Spent more time trawling for pencils and pens
Staring outside my window wondering when will it all end

Why couldn't I be born in ancient Greece
Pythagoras' work would be will in my reach
I could just stay in my room and persevere
But screw it, I'm off, it's time for a beer.





What Would It Be




What would it be
if every screen turns black,
and every small transistor disappears.

What would it be
if Bell was never born,
and his ideas died in fear.

Then maybe only foolish whisper,
would keep my dream alive.
The dream of bright ideas,
and people - that make the magic come to live.





The plight




Through bolts and through arrows,
Which is nobler, which is not?
One of many questions follows:
Is it bliss, or is it not?

To ask ourselves about the world,
In this ever going quest,
To disclose the unobserved,
As our minds become unrest.

We integrate through thoughts,
To explain what we perceive,
For the plane that we all cross,
Is far from what our eyes believe.

We paint the world in numbers,
Bind it in relativistic time,
Revealing its true colours
Through equations that make it rhyme.

Yet, colours are illusions,
Interpretations of our minds;
And this lack of a conclusion,
Our thoughts continuously grinds.

The true meaning of reality
Remains hidden from our sight;
For in this unforgiving galaxy,
Uncertainty will ever be our plight.

Models fall like dominoes,
But we still hear the numbers chime.
As the universe yet echoes,
We still search for its true rhyme ...





The Wait




Following
laboured
weeks
and
days
of
toil

At
my
desktop
researching
journals
loyal,

I pieced
together
a
protocol

That
I
concluded
to
at
least
be
practical



Post
gaining
the
official
approval,

No
time
was
wasted
in
my
attention’s removal

From
Internet bound,
sedentary
reading,

Bouncing
into
the
lab‐
well
it’s
much
more
appealing




I
put
into
actions,
which
had
been
on
paper

And
hoped
that
the
gaps
in
knowledge
would
taper

Long
hours
went
into
perfecting
this
method

(I
pondered
if
the
results
would
reflect
the
effort)



But
there
remains
a
factor,
thus
far
I've
eluded,

That
I
could
not
run
these
samples
diluted,

On
equipment
that
our
department
was
lacking

So
off
to
a
private
firm
they
went
packing



And
I
now
I
just
wait,
anxious
for
that
email

That
will
return my
data
intact
without
fail

“Falcon
tubes
one
eighteen to
four
eighty
two

Are
currently
listed
in
our
worker’s
queue”



Now
patience
is
something
all
scientists
know,

But
this
flies
out
the
window
when
you’re out
of
control

Back
to
the
desktop,
more
theory’s my fate,

At
one
point
we’re
all
consigned
to
the
wait.






How beautiful this existence





How beautiful this existence, when unknown to shallow greed
To manipulate and mould it, sows an obsessive seed
From this a world controls us, blossoms to amaze
Narrowed minds become us, trapped in a singular gaze

To hold our eyes open, not just for want nor pride
But to appreciate each detail, worthy to be admired
Folding to one another, evolving in their grasp
Wound tight in divine web, shaping realities mask
All we take for granted, held in the depths of time
All we know and have known, morph to the sublime

Admit our impossible pursuit, accept infinitive unknown
But bask in the existence, for with this we are left alone
Watch our eyes wither, slaves to curiosity
Plead law to unravel, from beginning to eternity
Reality is Beauty, maternal, pure
Beauty is real, ours to explore.





Empire of the Sun




The central fire, giver of life
Creation and destruction, a fusion-powered shining face
Helios, Apollo, Ra, Amaterasu, God Himself
Administering a giant empire of congealed stardust
stretching a light year into space.

Some rocks close by
A battered, shrunken sphere of the same iron that reddens our blood
An acidic pressure cooker of beauty, the morning and evening star
A dancing couple: blue and grey, vitality and desolation, yin and yang
and a russet-hued frozen wasteland where water once flowed
that may one day reveal the secrets of life and teach us who we really are.

A hailstorm of builders' rubble left over from creation,
bringers of a forgotten reptilian holocaust when fire rained from air
The source of shattered Russian windows, of future mineral resources
stretched over such a wide expanse, the belt is almost not there.

Then come the giants
A failed star, king of the Gods, commanding sixty-seven attendants
The jewel of the skies, crowned with a thousand shining haloes of ice
A sideways tumbling blue-green sphere, anonymous to antiquity
and the god of the deep blue seas, with a windswept, frozen visage
no solid surface on these worlds, a liquefied gas mantle must suffice.

A blizzard of a billion snowflakes, the snows of four billion yesteryears,
a belt and a cloud where Kuiper and Oort staked their claim
A former planet lives here, and comets blaze through the skies
Ensuring multi-billion year immortality for those astronomers' names.

Deep in the enduring cold, where the God of Fire is shrunken to another star
our enduring little Voyager 1, the farthest thing we've sent to roam
our last sentinel between the blazing fire and the eternal night
heading out into the stars to tell the worlds with ears to hear
that some civilisation calls this tiny little solar empire
Home.





Trapped into the matrix





Binary numbers together in a row
Eight by eight in the computer they go
To understand the code ask Frank Gray
He sure did influence the modern day

True or false the line is clear
No place for a maybe or a near
Oh imagine the world it would be
If everything was in binary





Dawkins





He studied animals for many years,
And after a while it all became clear,
That this privileged position let him guarantee,
That there is no god, D.V., Q.E.D.





Create, Create and Calculate




There ain't no scientist in my head and poet in my heart
What stark divide could keep the two apart
When they're in constant conversation,
A glorious convocation of thinkers and dreamers
Throwing ideas at one another which spark and bounce into new creation
Like protons colliding in a particle chamber.
I think we're in danger of forgetting
They're just two branches of the same human condition
They're just methods and means but they're on the same mission;
The search for meaning and truth.
And maybe art doesn't concern itself with proofs,
But if you tell me science doesn't concern itself with life and joy
I'll call you a liar.
Did not a patent-clerk once say
"Pure mathematics is, in its way,
The poetry of logical ideas"?
Is philosophy not an art?
And did physics not start
From the lofty heights of natural philosophy
Waxing lyrical about what is and what could be?
If you want to see science and art working in unity
Just look at any image of a sunset. I bet,
That for every phenomena you try to describe with your mind
Your soul is aching with an explanation too.
And why on earth should they not both be true?
There's no contradiction I see in this duality...
If light can be both a particle and a wave
Then why can't a rainbow save your battered soul with the beauty of it
Just as an explanation thrills your curious mind?
I don't know about you, but I find
Creativity and curiosity belong together.
And regardless of whether you think that too,
I still have this message for you:
Create, create and calculate.
May the infinite series of your ideas
Never converge to a steady state.
May your curiosity be divergent
And ever, ever expanding.





Sonnet 086/ Oppenheimer in Mourning





Embraced my formless beauty's Godly gifts
Physica sacred as colours be flawed,
On journey to solve man's eternal rifts
To find true matter for grievous reward.
Devils deceived, in love with mine present
I thought it my own when logic is thine,
Blinded pure light, devotion so fervent
I lost sight of reason and death became mine,
Cascades of loss, instantaneous fire
Why burn bodies black, new shade of my blood?
How could dear hands split raw atoms desire
for love, creating deformity's flood.
Alas, to feel wise, loss hath become me
Devil instead, is not death's conscience free?





Saturnian Serenity





Far out amongst the desolate shadows of our Solar System,
Sails the magnificent ice planet,
Saturn.

For all its solitude in our minds,
Cast from the inner neighbourhood,
Impinging upon the bleak edge fringes of the impending emptiness which follows,
Her stark presence is as haunting amongst this eerie void as her isolate beauty is capturing of our imaginations.

Dwindled decades passed by,
She slipped from our sight,
Re-emerging in the chains of her haunting incarceration,
The heirs of mysteries caught us, once more.

Desire driven,
We must decipher this cryptic illusion,
Unshackle the secrets she's hoarding,
Probe her, pick at her, analyse in alien knowledge,
And discover not an unfamiliar surrounding.

Neither cold nor desolate,
We could never have imagined,
A stranger places so familiar to home.





It haunts me





The hour is late, I should have stopped working
long time ago,
but there is something that calls me, that stops me from leaving.
There is something hypnotic about the numbers in the screen,
something beautiful about the relations in this perfect geometry,
its complex simplicity calls me in the same manner the sirens song
used to call sailors into their end.

My mind moves in circles, trying to unravel this riddle.
I hear the same questions in my mind once and again,
how can this algorithm be more efficient, faster, lighter.
I now there is a way to do it, numbers don't lie,
but in their beautiful choreography, in its magnificent structure,
they do not give me the answer either.

I should stop now, this is becoming obsessive,
but there is a need of creation in my mind,
a powerful curiosity that needs to see what will happen.
The same feeling that guided Viktor Frankestein to create the creature,
that need that drove Marie Curie to its death,
that hate for the unknown that claimed Clarence Dally's hands,
that is driving me,
and
I don’t know where it will lead,
but I'm sure I want to know what will I find.





The Lonely Electron





I sit alone in singlet state,
No other electron to share my fate,
At spin a half I precess alone,
No other electron to call my own.

You said to me I'll be magnetic,
Told me that I would be electric,
These are not the powers that I desire,
Without stability I begin to tire.

Below me I see the pairs together,
Will loneliness be my fate forever,
I am higher in energy but lower in esteem,
To be paired up is the electron dream.

I see a ligand coming in,
Will there be an electron with opposite spin,
With a flash of light we can now bind,
To be forever intertwined.





time





I think I know you
but you are not there
I can grab you
but you run away
why do I want to tackle you?
I try to split you and it works
but when I approach you, you ignore me
you must have feelings
are you gendered?
maybe not in English
are you related to deadline?
if so we are family
when mass pulls you, you go slow
but you seem to ignore that when I am there
when I am happy you run away
but for the pain you stay
you must have a mind
you are in my mind
somehow I need you
but you are not material
you are ghostly
I try to be rational
or so a scientist pretends
you define hope
but I laugh at you
who makes you?
or do you make.

do you even exist?





The balad of a student





I am leaving my town
Oh, my small snowy town
Where my childhood burned out like a spark.
Now three years without sleep
Are awaiting for me,
To my dorm i return in the dark.

In this small dusty room
Under flickering light
Will i study in silence, and as
Morning birds start to sing
And the sky becomes red
I will be on my way to the class.

Many good helpful friends
I have already met
And they proved to be true and sincere,
I will always help them,
They will not betray me.
All together we fight with no fear.

And when we graduate
We can choose any road
From the galaxies to ocean deep,
With the knowledge we get
We can reach for the stars
But for now I will go get some sleep.





A Rose-Tinted View




I have a greater horizon
Than any shape to glance the still,
My mind’s eye deeper, sees the form
Than any creature under hill.

I create the grand, fix the small
My body rich with morphing breath,
I use my heart to delegate,
My hands to sing, or quicken death.

My complexity captures it;
The quill, music or painter’s brush,
Philosophy and medicine,
The tender kiss and lover’s blush.

You mustn't see the rose-tint view;
I fight God’s hand, change the suture!
The laws of Gaia I ignore,
I drop the past, grasp the future!

The shine within the stars above,
The power that fuels my city;
The world around beneath my heel,
The people my source of money.

What distortions can I unmask?
What, no limit beyond the break?
What vice and sin can I employ?
What spirit or life to forsake?

All the ability to change
Is not good enough for the cause.
Hot Red drips, oil weeps, gunfire rips,
As blood-lust seeps; red in tooth and claws.

Reason, intellect abandoned,
What artisan can weave the seam?
Cool the warmer? Refill the well?
Feed the soul? Mend the twisted dream?

All emotions can I repress,
Or explain the self-harming race.
I fashioned the first of the tools,
Existence is my choice and my grace.





Hund's Rule





This morning I felt like an electron,
As I climbed onto the ancient, lurching 142,
And peered past bleary faces, praying for an empty pew,
None free, I found myself squeezing into an orbital next to you.
Hund’s Rule seems to govern sitting on the bus, too.





The Aerospace Engineer's Limerick




A high lift-to-drag ratio is what I find dear,
Remembering fillets to reduce drag interfere,
Make the engine combust,
So it produces thrust,
I must remember because I’m an Aerospace Engineer.





Take off!




The fan sucks in air,
On this extravagant affair,
It flow through the compressor,
Now we’re really under pressure,
Burning in fuel to combust,
To produce a very big thrust,
For the power of propulsion
The wings start to lift under the compulsion.
Is it a bird, or is it a plane?
No it’s much more insane,
An Engineers Imagination
That is aviation.





The Coordinator of Rapid Rupture’s Regret





The warming glow of fire, has always had a price.
The deliverer Prometheus, received a sentence worse than life.
An eternity of agony. Pain, til the end of time.
I don’t expect dissimilar in the recompense that’s mine.

How many men, by my creation, will cease to live, and die?
How many lives, extinguished, in a fiery blink of eye?
Regret is all that clouds my thoughts, amid the carnage that unfurls.
‘Now I am become death, the destroyer of worlds’

I bowed my head and sighed,
looked down and triggered all the switches
“It worked” said a voice. Another replied:
“Yeah, now we’re all sons of bitches”






<Untitled>




While many learned men would fight,
About how to keep our lights,
About coal or wind, gas or sun,
To keep our darkness slight,
It seems to me,
Quite clear to see,
There’s nothing to be done,
‘Cept huddle close
And hope we all
Can see by clear moonlight.





The Proof




Say for a contradiction, that there was an extinction

Of innovation, ideas and the progress of people

The human race, no longer steadfast

How far have they come? How long will they last?

Nature mocks us for what we can’t comprehend.

A world where a thesis is the beginning and the end.



Allow me to provide such a thesis to start,

Let x be an idea not from the brain but the heart,

Provided x be strictly less than The Large Hadron Collider,

(Which has far reaching consequences, us none the wiser!)

The pinnacle of our time, the maxima of our power

Is x bound? Can it go even higher?



So let t be time, from zero to infinity

If x is proportional to t, Then let it grow perpetually

Like the periodic table which can never be truly complete

Or far in space, poor Pluto – what a feat

With so much left, it’s no wonder we’re so l337

Hence, forget this proposition ever existed. Press Shift and Delete.



But the very idea, to reject this idea

Is a contradiction you see.
QED.





Method




If more models accept a phenomenon
they are not independent, so, let’s think
going to the core. But the phenomenon?
Well, let’s think about the phenomenon then,
regardless of the core.
Thinking about the phenomenon we have
does the core have anything to do with it?
We could do without using it,
without even realizing it.
Given the core, how simple is the study
of a phenomenon?
Of my phenomenon??
For the phenomenon I invent a local core.
Given the core I derive its phenomena;
given a core, I adapt my phenomenon.
I think about the phenomenon and my phenomenon:
are they the same? Reasonably the same?
I think about the phenomenon via the core.
I think of the core. I think, I think, I think
starting from the phenomenon.
I think of the core. I think of the core.
I think of the core starting from the phenomenon
Or do I invent a core to support my phenomenon?
A core, phenomena;
a phenomenon, my local core;
more phenomena, more local cores.
From the local cores the only core, if there is one.
From the core phenomena,
my phenomenon. And the phenomenon?
A phenomenon is my phenomenon
but is the phenomenon a phenomenon?
From my local core the only core:
I have invented a local core
trying to discover the only core.
Trying to discover the only core
I have invented a local core
that supports my phenomenon.
Rightly adopting a real phenomenon
I have made a discovery. Studying is useful.
Knowing phenomena is useful for inventing things
discovering indirectly.





Chemistry




Hold it up to the light and see,
Heaven in a grain of sand,
Little by little piece by piece,
Beautiful worlds in the palm of your hand,
Baring rock and rain and sea,
Cast aside by dying stars,
Nature once unknown to me,
Open up your wondrous arms.





Get STIMULATED




Let the Light be,
As NATURE has shown in nature,
Stimulated for man,
Ever challenging though,
Reach out to the CONNECT.

Telling it for others to react,
Enter with knowledge for service,
Celebrating life’s harvest,
Here comes the gathering,
Never ending,
Opportunities blossom,
Look, just look,
Organs for systems,
Get ready and be fulfilled,
You can, as it were!





The Mesopotamian Genius




Nine centuries in the forgotten past
Hailed a man from modern day Iraq,

A bearded fellow who had a vision
To inaugurate his beloved nation,

From the desolate desert terrain
To being of use, a productive gain,

Nothing domineering or extravagant
Truly selfless acts were his intent,

Supplying constant water to hospitals
Through hydro powered geared spectacles,

And also irrigating arid wastelands
For farmers to grow crops on demand,

Via the use of aqueducts and reservoirs
Which adds to his saint-like repertoire,

He also invented astronomical clocks
Befitting for a King's castle wall block,

Many feet in diameter with such intricacy
All powered via a constant water stream,

For all to see, for he mastered automata
A mechanical art form, a mystic sculptor,

Truly a Civil Engineer for the masses
Who provided facilities for all classes,

In most instances he actually did voluntary,
For no man can put a price on prosperity

Something that is lost in the translation
When seeing today’s engineering creations,

Where the people are only there to be paid
Hypocritical "working for the man" accolades,

A concept unheard of in the centuries gone
For the need to help people was once strong...






Song # Seven




I got home last evening as I heard daddy crying
His brother, my uncle, took away his wife
Bounded by a ring, I avoided his eyes
As I turned to my sister, so full of life
And when, when will I go
To where the winds should blow
I headed for the beach so that lonesome could go
Cold breeze it blew sands into my eyes
Being as I am and having been born too late
Knowing fate’s like destiny, there’s no compromise
And when, when will I go
To where the winds should blow
Misguided by the moon, like the tides of the ocean
I broke into the thought of your easy face
You’ve seen so many things, and the myths that you could tell
Would make me want to kiss you every single day
Then I felt stood behind me was a man who I knew
A blue-eyed stranger she turned out to be
It’s getting dark, I’d better leave
There’s nobody around here, ‘cept for you and me
And when, when will I go
To where the winds should blow





AN OPEN LETTER TO MY–BABE




A lonely heart in search of love, one I could call my own. You came knocking. At first sight, it was as though I had known you from the womb. I took you home to my parents. Oh! How my mother loved you, my father gave me the money to pay your ultimate prize.
The life I shared with you gave me the privilege of meeting the best the world can ever offer. You introduced me to LINUX, while securing the WINDOWS side of our apartment. The foremost musician CISCO has been of great help, he has consistently maintained the network we share with our great pals ORACLE and JAVA. The DOT NETted between these networks, the symbol of stiff competition. MYSQL grandson of SQL, who got married to PHP, claims to understand how I feel, after inviting their friends JAVASCRIPT, XML, CSS etcetera, to live with them in a castle they called AJAX.
My–babe, your sweet melody is like no other. My! That the world would hear you sing. Melody with lyrics of hope, life and strength, I call them the revival of a weary heart. Your father’s wealth we have squandered honeymooning round the globe, learning cultures, languages, history, politics, technologies, people…, and visiting our pals all over the globe, as often as we can.
Unlike other lovers, who complain to stay away from their partners, My–babe, you always sits on my LAPS, easily understands my mood, quick in response, willing to sing sweet melodies for me even while I sleep. You tell stories with precision, never missing a detail, willing to repeat yourself just for me to understand. There is never a dull moment with you. If I am to choose again, I will still come for you.
My friend, a worthy companion and an understanding teacher, who holds me by hand, teaching with illustrations, we visit your friends in different FORUMS for all you don’t know, with all, willingly contributing meaningful ideas. Some quarter will advice caution in dealing with women especially, those of your caliber, of which I do not object. Initially, I was careful and girded you jealously. Now, I can say of My–babe, that I know, one who loves me with all her heart and would not leave me, even for the entire universe.
My kisses of the morning, the overtures of the noonday, my caress and care of the night has and will always be a reassurance of my love for you. Recently I employed a housemaid HARDDISK to help in the EXTERNAL chores. They cost me a great deal, but I consider it little, a thing that I should give a damsel.
My Queen and Princess, a rare damsel, whose beauty encapsulates her ruggedness, from a distance, seem like any normal girl, but my closeness to her has taught me that great values lie in unassuming women like her.
If only you can look through my eyes, you will affirm, my dear DELL INSPIRION. Hope to share more lovely time together. I love you.





Simply




What is science if not beautiful and fun?
Atoms and all matter, including the sun,
It is even more, descriptions have begun,
Physics can be electric, pardon the pun,
Chemistry helps humanity, in the long run,
Biology is life, and not to be outdone,
Engineering builds things that should not be shun;
Equations can satisfy like the best bun,

What does this mean for the average human?

Science is everywhere, around everyone,
In every country, from Iceland to Gabon
There’s always a question like what’s Higgs’ boson?
But if you try hard, like Einstein and Newton,
You can find answers, a simple solution,
The DNA structure, Foucault’s pendulum,
Smallest of the small, the quark and electron;
Or even an engine, or television

Look at buildings, bridges, cars weighing a ton,
Or IVF, maybe your sister or son,
Or numbers, from pi to a quadrillion,
To see benefits needs no concentration,
To say it’s boring is misinformation,
So when you fly, cycle, or dress as a nun,
Notice all around you just what it has done;
If you look around closely, argue would none

Beauty is truth, truth beauty; beauty is fun






DNA




An apple picked in Eden,
a stork outside your mothers door
we all know tales and fables about from whence we came,
but the magic in our blood surely beats them all.

God's language.
Poetry in the patterns
and maths in the difference.
Unidentifiable algorithms with programmer’s precision.

The language of all life made only from letters AGTC.
Each transcription full stop; codon TAA TGA TAG.
Translation to another form of same meaning,
With stiff two spines not one, of phosphate-sugar-base.
Universal to frogs, bats and trees
but in human language, Babel split all nations in that place.
Mutations that travel like Chinese whispers through time,
we may be at the end, the middle or the beginning of our race's rhyme.

A child within a child within a child.
So it started, so it will go on,
our codes hydrolised and intertwining.
Self replicating life aspiring.





Artist for a Catalyst




A Backbone to Science, A Backbone to Life,
The line between these avenues as fine as a knife,
What merges these two worlds together in harmony
Neither science nor life, Oh the irony!

Convergence of these routes allows engineering to be,
Watch how the story unfolds and you will surely see.
For a catalyst provides routes for reactions to come about,
Too many ways in, Too many ways out…

Creation of such devices impossible without a human’s touch,
And without his intellect you can’t really expect much.
Into the heart of the catalyst, Her creativity pumps vision,
A labyrinth perfect and true because we don’t want a collision.

Active sites dispersed over the broadest area is so strategic,
Larger on the inside than on the outside, It’s just like magic.
Porous and open like a sieve sifting its flour,
But working so hard it needs replenishing every hour.

A cage of such brilliance devised only by thinking,
Seems so complex but is so very accommodating.
The macroscope or the microscope, It’s all about space,
Get them in, Get them out, Leave without a trace…

Comprised of the most precious materials known to man,
What have been placed on this rock since before time began,
Attracting the most inactive and awkward specimens we know,
Turning over their fate to help the system flow.

Vital to the functioning of organs and reactors alike,
Keeps its pulse rate consistent so it doesn’t feel the spike.
Lowers the activation barrier like a climber chipping the mountain,
Paramount for reaction survival, As important as any captain.

A maze of channels intertwined to facilitate its escape,
Through the dark and wilderness, Through the landscape.
Selective and active makes the soul of a catalyst,
Designed by a Scientist, Designed by an Artist…





Trouble in the bubble




The tiny people I can see.
How rough our lego town is.
But from afar, the town smooths out.
Lakes and roads become, puddles & tracks, & cracks.
Trapped in our little crust.
Passing the time with jobs & art & music & such.
So much to do, but for what, in our little duplo lives.

The LUST programmed into us.
The FEAR of death.

We take our spades.
We dig; down to the dark; buried in black; a jack.
We fly; up in the blue. Not a care.

Cumulonimbus gives me cunnilingus. A cheeky blowy.
Trapped in our lego atom.
Tied down, the trees are all made of cotton.
A blue peter world, rendered rotten.

BOHR was so right.



We jostle and bustle
And settle for the kettle when the day has been long.

A good cup of tea can set us all free.
But a brew will never launch us out there.
Only BOHR knows what to do.





MAN, NATURE, SCIENCE, GOD




So awesome are the powers of men
So pitiful are our ignorance of these
Birth, life and death are our timeline
Curiosity grows our knowledge
Talent and Skills literally builds our world
Encircling it all with our imaginations
Innovation sustains us
Setting us apart from past ages.
So beautiful are our centre of abode
Blessed with bountiful resources
Life disguised in nature
A survival kit grabbed by the fittest
But even the fittest fades with time-
The beginning and end of everything
Though unevenly distributed, it has an end
What more could be so relieving?
A consolation for its nick holders.
So rich and resourceful are our creative Well
Infinite and Limitless runs our minds
Without borders and boundaries our achievements grows
Following patterns and myriad paths we make discoveries
In the process, we fall, we rise, we keep on walking. Ever persistent.
Our world is technically developing
Engineering now spells T-R-A-N-S-F-O-R-M-A-T-I-O-N
The time of the machines has come
A new age is fast approaching
Like Magic, Science is hypnotising us to a new world;
Science is just beautiful. It fulfils our fantasy.
So mysterious is our origin, our purpose of existence
So divine is the order of our world
The sun sinks to rise again on its own accord
The day is swallowed in the gloom of the night to be born fresh again
Flowers blossoms today and withers tomorrow
Water flows from the sky to the earth and back again
Though our science could explain some of these
Though these ultimate revolutions are understood
Yet we have no control of them
And like our stench, these questions lingers
Who really are we? What is our purpose of living?
What intelligence is behind the order of our World?
Some call it God, others a Supernatural force
Whatever it is, we are all connected
In the end, Man, Nature, Science, God co-exist mutually.





Bindings of Life




From the days of Einstein skating the fine curve of relativity,
Up to the mysteries of the black hole being unwrapped by Hawking,
Humans have opened their way through the world of science
Through the threads of space and time, greatness of their souls weaved within…

Within the frame of society lies brilliance in its embodied form.
The realization of Archimedes spawned ships to follow currents,
Whilst the vision of Edison gave us the gift of sunless light,
The unfathomable devastation of atomic power, to Szilard may we owe,
That to which we owe, or that to which we blame for such might?

The good will follow the rules, the great will master the rules
But the exceptional are the ones who make the rules…

From the smallest atom to the farthest galaxies of the universe,
Karmic aura surrounds and binds us all, like a prison in your mind.
For every push we give, we get a push back, equilibrium is key.
The concept so complex yet so elegant, so fundamental, so simple
As simple as an apple allowing your mind to fall down to the truth…

Constrained by the tightest bonds, these shackles hold us together,
The most infinitesimal and meekest of vibrations are all that is allowed,
And only with the assimilation of energy in its purest form
Can man hope to break free and take off in a midst of glory,
Perpetual motion, now just an idea, with a human’s touch soon to be,
Attain hopes of endless possibilities, be able to touch the sky…

Without people the static metal of a car could never hope to be dynamic,
Without people a box can never aspire to be a television,
Without people the only thing air would be carrying is the birds.

In the absence of a human’s touch, without the workings of human intellect,
The concept of science will always be limited by the boundary of theory…






Bacteria, my best
friend




I never knew you existed,
I have never seen you,
My biology teacher told me you are real,
But I need a microscope to see you,
I was told you caused diseases,
I was told you are very dangerous,
I was told you are a great enemy.

Your name scared everybody,
Your name was a taboo,
Nothing good can come out of you,
It was wisdom to avoid you,
It was wisdom to villify you.

Bacteria was the devil’s henchman,
Bacteria was the evil genius,
If there was odour, it was bacteria
If food spoils, it was bacteria,
If a plant was diseased, it was bacteria,
If there was a decay, it was bacteria,
If a lady had still birth, it was bacteria,
Bacteria was indeed the devil’s demon.

Until my drum of petrol poured on the soil,
And I sought the advice of the Environmentalist,
And I was told I need a friend to clean it,
Who could that friend be?
Where do I find him?
Is it the lion or the bear?
Is it the shark or hippopotamus?

The Environmentalist smiled and said,
It is your little friend,
It is ubiquitous,
Everything is not bad about bacteria,
Bacteria is the Environmentalist friend,
Bacteria is your hope when there is crude oil pollution,
Bacteria is your hope when there is xenobiotic pollution,
Bacteria can clean up many chemicals,
Bacteria can restore your polluted environment.

The Environmentalist smiled with a nod of
his head,
There are many friends,
Fungi is a friend,
Algae is a friend,
But bacteria is your best friend.

If you want to know the value of bacteria,
Ask the Environmental Engineer,
Ask the microbiologist,
Indeed, bacteria is my best friend.





Poems Need Engineering Too




It’s not only brick, steel, timber and glass,
That keep us all warm, and dry.

The soul requires more than materials offer,
To maintain,
Not wither and die.

The laws of physics, nature, even Sod,
Do little when feelings are blue.

In these times of need,
Even Newton agreed,
Poems need engineering too.





A Quantum Break in Romance at University




At the end of a relative time of opportunity, and two people part, one stands at the end of a harmonious convolution - waving his fellow wave goodbye as it speeds away with no sine of return; a broken integration... an infinite space to dwell behind this audacious asymptote that blocks his path... so much potential, yet trapped within a dampening well with no tunnel for love; just this whisper of an unforgotten grace left to resonate between these walls.





A letter to my chemist-wife




Chemistry is my life

…….…

It is your life too
Whenever you come
………
Wherever I go
The reaction was strong ……… when I met you
It was not too long ……... It is twenty years ago
Adrenalin starts rising ……… whenever I see you
Many times I want talking ………. But shy I was to do
Eventually I pushed my heart ………. And decided telling you
You are my queen
…..…

Duke I’m for you
I can’t stop thinking
………
And never stop loving you
You love me not

……….


Or you love me true
The life was boring
…..….
Before you came through
You make me happy
………
Whatever you do
Tulip plant is you
………..
Children are flowers of you
You always hard work ……….
To make them grow
Sometimes I support
……….
Sometimes I don’t do
However, you’re patient

………..
Whatever they can do
Please keep on
and do ……… May God bless you
The life is not so easy ……… as definitely you know
You will be happy ………. When you see them grow
As you can teach them ………. You never be lazy and slow
The future’s for them ……….
Sooner or later we will go
They only need your mercy ….…,...
to help them bright glow





The Beauty of Science




Let me take you by the hand
And guide you through a wondrous land;
Let yourself find your feet
Then let it take them from you in its sweep,

You’ll find your feet again once more,
Now allow your eyes and mouth to open in awe;
Let your heart in numbers find
Your head, a new and different mind,

Its beauty, ever-changing, it twists and turns
And its mysteries we may never learn;
From the tiniest particles and the mightiest stars
To DNA, evolution, everything near and far,

Let me show you, equations are its flowers,
Beautiful and blooming beneath the bowers;
See its streams, they are new theories
To the ocean of knowledge that make our blinded eyes now just bleary,

With roots that go deep, these trees are laws
Until with a singular flash of brilliance, they are flawed;
And mysteries are just mountains and hills
Maybe one day they will be overcome yet some never will,

Let my love for that land never wane
And let that land never die nor stay the same;
If our hearts and minds be in alliance,
Let us keep there our beloved Science.





Engineering Riddem’




the building is called george begg
heres stuff that will hurt ur head
we study stress, but to it we’r prone
you listen hard you can hear the growns
we study things that are well hard just like vinnie jones

loads of coursework, its all vocational, gotta tick boxes for a chartership
its a par to slip-
up and your fucked
0% in the late box
notes in my backpack weigh rocks
but it’ll get me a good job
earn me a few bob
a gated house with a key fob
beautiful wife and a big dog.

thats Pamela and spot
but first i’ve gotta try and remember the equations from last year that i went and forgot,

calculate how clever use of integration
might be able to save me from a lifetime of masturbation
and send me on a nice vacation
first ive gotta design some foundations,

but its trying my patience
i resent the settlement on one side is like 500 mill
if it aint smaller next time then trust me i will,
well some times i fill,
i understand how some people snap and they kill,

now i learn techniques how to drill,
thank god i was only in the lecture,
it would have been worse if i had been asleep at the wheel.

lectures talk of stress, strain and equilibrium.
my mind wanders to sophie, stace and vivian.
and home girls near the meridian
but they could all be that far,
theres only 2 or 3 in my class
and i’ve gotta be there all day so i know that i’ll pass.

it is quite nice to design a structure that will just stand up,
and not try to walk off,
a bridge to people previously cut off,
to do the maths
that will without a doubt guarantee
That i will not be behind the bridge that put man in the sea,
causing untold misery.

the thing is
i could guarantee
that,
if i gave up,

being a poet would be easier,
done this in half n hour, give me more time, it would have been a shit lot sleazier.
bbrrrrraaaap





To My Love




If you are hyperbolic lines,I would be your asymptotic
line.
If you are a normal distribution function,I would be
the x-axis.
As I believe that the infinity must be come true
someday.
However,gradually,I find we are the two cut lines of
the cut complex plane.
Although we both start from the origin,we cannot meet
with each other even if in negative infinity.
Finally,I understand that you are just parallel to me.
I cannot touch you forever as if I never meet you.
Our love starts before it ends up.
What I can give you is only blessing.
Bless to my love.






<Untitled>




City of lights
Many have passed through
From Kilburn to Geim
Much was found
Obscure sometimes
A question was there
Cortex or Helix, Oh Watson did you see

City of light
Many have passed through
From Geim to you
Will you be next?





PHYSICS . . . PHULL STOP




It seems clear to me that phaith is phoolish;
To be bound by belieph and dogma – phruitless.
Rational by rule, I do not to see to believe,
But to look at the world quite simply to see.
Empiricism leaves little room phor debate,
Ergo Physics decides each one of our phates:
Its phormulas predict how time will unphold,
Veriphied through history, as experiments showed.
Statistics give me the conphidence I need,
That science’s solution will phorever succeed.
Perseverance is key phor unknowns that remain;
Answers await phor us to phind and explain.
These laws that I cherish are a matter of phact;
And it’s Nature’s Mathematics, which phixes our paths;
That cat in the box is both dead and alive;
And in all of these things, I firmly ... believe.





Fibonacci




One
Thing
About
Science is
That it can create
Beauty from such simple pieces.





Fever




We are under attack,
Fever rages to protect.
A defence that we despise,
An offence that phagocytosise.

Chameleons like it hot
When ill, unlike we thought.
We keep on giving paracetamol
Because we want to have it all.

Should we prescribe it or not?
Are we doing as we ought?
Are we giving a hand?
Perhaps it is not ‘or’ but ‘and’.





The Love Five




Adrenaline; the first time
your hands touch,
mouth to dry to speak,
hearts race
only with a joint first place.

Dopamine; the rush,
pleasure and energy,
eating slips your mind,
sleep escapes you,
one plus one is two.

Serotonin; the reason
your mood changes,
the purpose
for life to survive,
for two to thrive.

Oxytocin; the feeling
to be so close,
to feel the warmth,
to hear the heartbeat,
nothing so sweet.

Vasopressin; the devotion,
hand in hand with trust,
stay safe,
always care for someone,
care for everyone.

Five working in harmony.
Is love simple?





Blink




Bli-

Electrons fizz and flash past
Excite, Emit, Energise;
Bonds stretch torque twist
Shatter.
Atoms shift and spin and shake
Out of the chaos particles dart and dash
From orbit to orbit, down rushing streams of energy flowing
‘Til bonds coalesce as a city out of mist
And these molecules , New arrangements of Old familiar faces
Spiral onwards through a world of their own.

-nk and you’ll miss it





My worlds




Imagine all perception joint:
And yet I challenge every day
the universe, your home, my world,
this world of probability:
condensed into a single point;
statistics, ruling as they may,
infinite, to become unfurled.
shan’t mute my own ability.


Imagine such a world of light,
What lies beyond our realm of sight,
still travelling towards us fast,
elusive, try we as we might,
no endpoint, only travel, plight,
to strip away into the core
to greet the worlds with news of past.
reaching for something, new and more?

My world was born from stellar flares,
Another day, ten thousand past,
in vigour, Hades put to shame,
spent hunting questions, life and joy
that I can’t help but stand and stare,
in hope that they will always last;
in awe: to be here, share the flame.
give answers which we may employ.

My world to see, my world on show;
Another world, another place,
so little that I really know,
another human time and space,
yet never keeps me up at night:
may well have formed along with mine:
I live to question, not to fight.
I wonder if these will align?

I wonder if they could be mine?






Cursed Hearts




To a closed heart
You brought me light
Showed me joy
And opened my sight.

I saw your dream
In dreamers eyes
To hold me close
To be divine.

And then you drove
Your ice cold knife
Through my heart
To end my life.

And now you get
What comes to you.
I hope it
Does not end you too.





One thing remains




Cities rise and fall and falter,
Wars begin. Fought and lost.
Kings, queens and leaders,
They age. They fade away.
In an ever changing world,
Where those wars are final
And all else is destroyed.

One thing remains.

That through the smoke, the ashes and the embers,
Lives on.

Always moving never stopping never halting never falling never faulting.
Always living.

Science.






<Untitled>




Billions and billions,
And he was still wrong,
Trillions and trillions,
And we're still going strong,
Stars more numerous,
Than one man could ever see,
That is the numinous,
And it's where I'd like to be.

So if I had a month left to wizen,
I know where I'd want to go,
To the cusp of an Event Horizon,
Spread across a billion years,
What could be more amazing?
More grandiose?
More appraising?
Than telling the universe, adiós.





The Fate Of Sun




Just another star in a distant arm of milky way
known as sun is currently in it’s life’s day.


Its patience and anger are as great as its might,
dark-spots on face symbolise its patience. But when it ignites
to explode anger, into solar flares
No prevention, no cure for it, but prayers.


At its core two ones fuse to form one two,
contrasting the acts of its grandchildren on its daughter blue.
Son kills his father and brother his brother
All to butcher a piece of their own mother.


..............................................................................................................................................


Assassinations were not to last forever, the elderly interfered
exploding into space an eccentric solar storm as humanity had feared.


A rupture, a din and a boom,
and there were tears
in the eyes, accompanied with fears
of the sun willing to extinguish itself,
for it lost a daughter when it lost its self
control. But it had no one to warn, its useless to mourn
It never knew earth is a pop-able corn


No more rivers with water and roads with cars
Planet third in orbit was now the lifeless Mars
Sun decides to do for the other eight the job assigned
by the almighty, a contract with a affidavit signed.





poem (?)




There can not be Nothing.
And above there is so and below there is now't also.
Give thy plyt not thyne which would ask why not.
It can not be answered and thus should be not so done.
Terrible is the way that for should we be told not.
Another succumbant irreverent elumination of thought is put aside
For academic recompense.
Please let me rest.






<Untitled>




Is heaven a spandrel?
A quick release of DMT.
Is there any cognitive ability?
If the theory of evolution is true,
Does this mean that I can never be with you?
When you sleep the long sleep.
Do you dream?
Do you see me?
Do you peep?
Why would the brain release such secretions?
In his and hers reproductive states,
This has no allegiance.
When we love and live serotonin can make us happy,
But my children will still never get to call you daddy.
With our genes entwined we could have lived forever,
And you said that you would leave me never.
My precious little Johnny Craven, I need you,
In your heart was where I found my haven.
I still love you so much, I miss everything about you.
I can almost feel your touch.
My sweet prince, I hope that you have found some sedation,
And that we can go on and on in your time dilation.
I love you and I hate that I have to let go,
But for those drugs you just couldn't say no.
To never see you again will such a scandal,
If heaven is in your mind and nothing but a spandrel.





More Than Meets The Eye




Long nights spent sat alone,
Staring over the same lines of code.
Ill-informed see a recluse,
But passion and innovation are quietly produced.

Forward-thinking is not accepted by many,
For we are mere machines, two a penny.
Mass produced, but understated,
A world without vision would become antiquated.

Breaking the stereotype once again?
Sitting in their room, paper and pen.
Statistical analysis, algorithmic design?
By night a songwriter carves his moment in time.





Abiogenesis




There is a sculpture of a man.
He has evolved through
hammer, chisel, art.
Through each his stony feet and hands
there bubbles life that
flows from stony heart.
And grinding diaphragm I hear,
as from a baby's
gravel-pit first breath;
a wheezing boulder overture:
the sculptor Darwin's
banishment of death.






<Untitled>



We catalogue the agents of our kind,
We grind the lens, bring focus to our fears,
With Feynman lines and spirals map the mind,
Still burning is the flame of that idea,

Once stole in fennel stalk from ancient night,
To read the mind of god beneath its light.





Science As We Know It




The chemicals combine,
They give you a sign,
Without making a sound,
They say ”A cure you have found,”

The word is science,
So show your reliance,
It has all the answers,
Even about Enhancers,

Science is fun,
You will love it a ton,
You will learn a lot,
Don’t worry you wont loose the plot,

You can learn about Mars,
And all of the stars,
Or you can react all the acids,
And see if their placid,

Or watch them corrode,
And maybe explode,
You could study the heart,
Do you know where to start?

Look at the pulmonary veins,
There's so many there like lanes,
So come and give it a go,
Let’s see how much you know.





A ‘small’ poem




The whisperingly small particles, neat and cute,
Don’t do much by the eye or our body any good.
Yet singled out it strikes you, how amazing it can be,
first namely hyphenated to an iPod- the smallest that’s been seen.

It works miracles in a liquid, mixes right in.
It works miracles in a solid, strengthening to its brim.
Blow it out of your hand and the dust can barely be seen,
this particles not quite gas, but has properties of which only you could dream.

Us scientists we spend hours, hours upon end,
mixing and heating until our faces go red.
These particles are our future, the next of our money raker's,
have faith over our chemistry skills we’re no liars or fakers.

These particles I speak of they’re so minute I don’t declare crudely;
trying to see it with your bare eyes will only make you go googly.
Step in do the chemists, the engineers of the future,
this Transition electron microscope is definitely the answer,
Down to a scale of minus ten to the 9, not yet figured it out?
Well wait then in line and ill secure your doubt…

The particles I speak of aren’t the devil or small angels over our left shoulders,
they’re simply particles we acronymize as being “nano” sized boulders.
You’ll find many uses, and when you stop we’ll keep on creating,
for these particles will have many uses in keeping us from becoming out-dated.
So jump onto the ‘nano-wagon’ or hop aboard the speedy ‘nano-boat’,
because the future ahead of us will be full of all small things macro.





It is a thing of beauty




I hear the wailing of a mother;
It feels like déjà vu,
It is yet another air bombardment;
Another of its creation,
I begin to ponder,
Is it really worth it?

I see the devastation in his eyes,
As each passing victim dies,
The pipeline lost integrity;
The hydrocarbons found an ignition source,
He tried to save that worker,
But it was too late.

I hear the complaints of a people-
Their children are born disfigured;
It was a nuclear fallout,
Generations of people incapacitated,
I think again;
Is it really worth it?

I try to look beyond the pain,
In search of the gain,
I am inundated by the thought of the aeroplane;
One of its marvellous creations,
I begin to wonder;
What will we be without it?

I think of a world without industry;
Without electricity and without the internet;
Without the clean water from the neighbouring factory;
A world where natural resources are kept fallow-
Untouched and not understood;
Is it really worth it?

I picture the patient in the hospital,
During the years of my forefathers,
They said it was an imprecation;
The gods were angry,
The doctors say it’s a viral infection;
He’ll be discharged tomorrow.

It causes the occasional harm,
But the good is ubiquitous;
I just saw the picture of my newly-born niece,
Delivered from a thousand miles within an instant;
She is beautiful;
So is technology.





Atom




Attraction, attraction
Are what it seem to know

Timeless existence
Thoughts which are blinding

Of creation and destruction
Once controlled and understood

Master of this land
Manufactured man stands bewildered

As one can only guess
How it was born.





Saturday




Sad eyes.
You always have sad eyes
For the first time
You have sad eyes.

I should never have seen them.
I could’ve been far away;
A life lost in its own world.
But I came back.

Sad eyes and cold steel.
Your pretty warmth
Makes it bearable to touch
Only just.

I should never have felt that.
I could’ve been far away;
A life lost in its own world.
But I came back.

Cold steel and a weighted body.
Supporting you now
Not holding you
What have I done.

I should never have held you.
I could’ve been far away;
A life lost in its own world.
But I came back.

You’re heavy in my hands,
Your skin is pressed against mine,
They’re coming in,
You’re eyes are not on me
I don’t care.
You’re quiet
We’re all so quiet.
Home. Sleep. Forget




I’m glad I came back.





Chernobyl Encore...




Thundering sounds reached my ears
My eyes could not hold back the tears
The smoke swiftly enveloped the sky
My thoughts released in a single sigh.

I had lost my mum, my dad, my home
Left on the streets, to wander, to roam
They took my sisters under their wings
Abandoning me like a bee does its sting.

But bees have a job, a reason to live
They make honey which, to humans, they give
I, however, was like litter on the street
With the swift pick of the wind, I was off like sleet.

I settled in a camp, my second home
I established a fact; I was not alone
Thousands like me suffered the nuclear blast
Wiping, melting, robbing their past.

I grew in the camp, waved friends goodbye
They slipped out of my grasp as time ticked by
Until, at last, my age was eighteen
I left that ‘cage’, painting my scene.

From then the rollercoaster really took off
My life took a turn at every cough
I had ups, downs and moments in between
I had people to love, to help me, to lean.

Chernobyl had made an explosion on me
Which left me contaminated as a result, you see
But let’s just forget the negative things
And flutter a mile with the spread of our wings.

I’ve learnt not to care when people say stuff
I and my children have been through more than enough
My daughter, Kenny, is as perfect as could be
But my son, Karl, has his arms where they shouldn’t be.

My life has taught me values, and how they bring change
Some have been extraordinary, some have been strange
When life gives you lemons, you make lemonade
But life isn’t always the lemonade that YOU made.

So sit down if you weren’t part of that terrible April day
Keep in heart all the victims, and pray as hard as you may
Your prayers won’t go unnoticed; they never will, trust me
For the people who get better, will remember you eternally.

-




The past is never the past, for it will forever last...






<Untitled>




How come in real life, he wonders,
For every minus there's a plus?
It's different from complex numbers,
Where there is 'i', but there's no 'us'


If only we were all united,
'Cause some are weaker, some feel tough
But all of us, both wronged and righted,
Are nodes of a connected graph


Some people never really change,
It's like deriving e to x
Others don't get out of their range
For there's no place for G in hex


He dreams one simple algorithm
Could turn pain into happiness
And make us all enjoy the rhythm
Of feeling strong and limitless.






<Untitled>




I live in the shadows with my souls apart,
It's but a matter of time 'till the last one departs,
I can live without music, beauteous song,
For it's something less real for which my pieces long,
I can hold in my mind, if but for a flash,
A vision of you before it turns to ash,
Torn with my pain and burned with my fire,
Your beauty forgotten amidst my desire,
Were you ever real, or are you of my make,
In my mind you were perfect but all you did was take,
From me all that I had, everything of worth,
And now I am doomed to the shade of this Earth.





There's a Rainbow in my Room




There is a Rainbow in my room,
and I hold it in my hand.

Vivid as its source itself, every vacancy it invades,
filling its periphery with vibrant spectral shades.

Illuminated by the imagination of my God, ‘Sun, the Great’,
its magnificence amazes the mankind at an intemperate rate.

Brief as a bubble hovering in rain,
Capture its beauty and bliss, else it’ll drain.

Glorious as a Gem, it garnishes the romance,
lying secretly in middle of a gentle colour dance.

Youthful since the dawn of time, ethereal it always will be,
swallowing all your dullness and boredom; its only duty.

Obsession of the greats; of immortal imaginations it forms a part,
as an inverted acronym Vibgyor, it resides in every heart.

Rare it might be to you, but it visits me every day,
that’s just a benefit of believing in the God I pray.

There is a Rainbow in my room,
and I tell you no lie.





Art




Let me tell you a story that set us apart,
into one camp -- science, and one called art.
Artists argued that although they were smart,
scientists did not provide enough for the heart --
"Useful for humanity? Yes!
But more important is art at its best."

However artists are wrong as you shall see,
Science is beautiful as much as art can be.
In the shades of equations lies divine symmetry.
The natural world described formally,
reflects human expression and creativity.

Science is also inspiration,
a legacy to every new generation,
to explore the questions that the last one has set.
Expand, redefine and most importantly -- commit
Because without desire no goal can be met.

So I conlude that
science is both inspiring and beautiful in fact,
and if this doesn't provide enough for the heart,
you can go back again to your other so-called art.





Theoretical Physicist




No plans to move on,
I’m here its dusk i am here its dawn.
A relative frame does show me in motion,
Alas that doesn’t alter the rate of corrosion.

Like a singularity in time and space,
Defeated by gravity and universal expansion ways.
A useless neutron star emitting no light,
Or a dumb black hole, negation of bright.

Not always the same a different species I was,
A great theory I had, for which a conference I called to applause.
The theory I presented was critically commented,
Hundreds of greats laughed, i felt offended.

Disproving the uncertainty principle was my goal.
Space-time can be twisted to form a worm hole.
Couldn’t find a connection between the two thoughts,
As universal truths and theories are different lots.

Thoughts and knowledge approached a new infinitesimal.
My new identity is a short order decimal.
It was a dragon i had tried to tame
The world of mine ended in shame

I'll now let bright desired illuminate the stage.
What tied my steps has broken the cage.
For I have now over overcome the corrosion,
With determination to recreate the correct proportions.






<Untitled>




I love you
My whole heart is asking for you…
Put your lovely arms around me
That I may whisper into your ear…
And show you how much you really mean to me…
Show you what true love really means…
From the raw perspective of a seduced man…
I really want to lick your lips…
I want my tongue to know your tongue…
The way you know thyself…
When I look into your lovely eyes…
All I see is serene beauty calling…





EDINBURGH




impressionist skies
cloud-painted
shift upon gothic
haunted houses
which crowd along
the streets, looming
on paved streets and raised
against twilight’s
crayon.





The Good, the bad and the ingenious




A light bulb and determination,
An idea out of a million,
One day revolutionises the world.
But the mind is constantly wandering,
Needs and desires indistinguishable.
And the process continues.
Engineering is an art form.
A whirlwind that intertwines in our every existence,
A picture of complexity strips away simplicity.
There is displacement of ingenuity.
Change begets change.
Engineering is never ending.
Our senses perceive and we want the unexpected.
An epidemic that has swept the nation,
An explosion of events leads to transformation.
It’s not about maths, physics or chemistry.
It’s about adapting to the change.
So you are unprepared for your fate.
Some proceed to master its substance.
Don’t enter on a whim the field of engineering.
Your prospects glimpsed through the tunnel of uncertainty.
A few succumb to the pressure.
Gauging their potential against the next,
Settle for the average instead of excellence.
Mental and physical exhaustion is to be expected.
A second home might be required.
A chance of simplicity is a welcomed companion.
But you are fortunate and respected.
A few lives must have changed.
So cheers to you!





The dark becomes light




Suddenly, the dark becomes light
I'm rolling fast, the end's in sight
Off the belt and I take flight
Down with my brothers, they strap me tight
Off into the windswept night
We shake and rattle in fear and fright
The truck slows down, all seems alright
Then from the black, cuts through the white
They slide me out, no struggle nor fight
Up in the air to my delight
I'm slotted in, I am one with the site
Everything in the world feels right
A comfortable calm concluded my plight
As I sat there at a mighty height
My family around me, we reunite
'Happy days' I cry, 'Happy days outright!'
I watch the people walk, talk and write
The grass is green, the Sun is bright
No harsh word spoken, no need for contrite
Except when the man began to recite
'Goodbye dear building, goodbye dear friend
I'm afraid for you, this must be the end'
From within me a spark...tick...tack...tock...IGNITE
Like an eagle soar, wisp like a kite
BANG! ...then suddenly
The dark becomes light





LAND OF PEACE




Ravishing through the meadows
Enjoying breeze of the valley
Cold, blue the river water
Trees green
And mountains highly
Enjoying a rest, peacefully
Along their shadows, so cozy

Through the imaginings
Seeking the destiny
For which I traveled on,
On and only,
On this ship so empty
Through the fading sun
And this up-roaring sea

And hoping virtuously
That the moon’s luminosity
Would not lead me astray
From the tracks of my journey

Why I left my place???
I remember the reason hardly
In search of something that
Unknown and unseen, was surely

And my fellow buddy
The one, who left me
Blame not his loyalty
For nowhere is to be found
The land of serenity





The World we changed




Delve deep down into the unknown
For the truth to surface as it unfolds
We ponder and question the things we see
And respond and act, for the world to feel
As we try to balance the imbalance in life
We establish equilibrium
Protecting mankind
150 bar and 500 degrees,
Add some iron catalyst
To H2 and N2
To make NH3
Used in fertiliser to help crops grow
Fighting hunger
The world we feed even more
Who would have thought that we would travel the sky?
Bernoulli’s equation can be used to explain why aeroplanes fly
Some days are calm like laminar flow,
Other days feel turbulent, almost like a storm
We can shelter you from the cold
Provide you with electricity, water, and heat to keep you warm
Our purpose is simple, we have common goals
To create, to innovate, and unify concepts as a whole
We are thinkers of modern time
And pioneers within the fields of Mathematics and Science
We alter conditions, create processes and designs
And shape ideas into physical reality
We have great minds
You may have guessed who we are,
If not, I will tell you,
We are Engineers.





Science is Human




What separates us from animals?

The line is distinct, it’s true.

A human quest for knowledge,

And a thirst for intellect too.



But we need some matter to muse on,

How can we feed our imagination?

We ponder the origins of existence,

The big bang theory and evolution, or creation?



From the vast expanse of the universe

To the atom, incomprehensibly small

To “Would this still happen in a vacuum?”

Science strives to explain all.



It aids the progress of humanity,

With medicines, safe water, food to eat.

Provides infrastructure, transport, electricity

And fills our homes with heat.



Science explains natural phenomena

Like the tides and the seasons and weather

And the forces that allow us to run, drive and fly

Improving our lives is it’s endeavour.



Yes science is beautiful in many ways,

Pioneering and pushing our boundaries

For the advancement of mankind

And protection of the Earth

It makes us all humans together.





Science is an art




A bridge is where two places meet, beauty and necessity, what a feat!
Intertwining in blueprints, in smelting heat,
Then set in the landscape, and set to the beat,
Of a million journeys, and two million feet.

And it’s in the beat, you can hear the precision.
The clarity of numbers, set out in the rhythm.
And it’s the numbers, we use to mark and explain,
The beats in our heart, the sparks in our brain.

And sweet science wants to keepboth going,
To preserve life, in it’s ebbing and flowing.
Keep our planet green, keep it growing.
The beauty of knowledge, the beauty of knowing.

The beauty of progress.The beauty of hope.
The beauty at the end of the microscope,
Where the plays of existence are acted out,
Whilst we try and guess what the plots about.

And the beauty of the universe, so vast.
We see light in the present, from stars in the past,
And through our wonder, weall play our part.
Without a doubt, true science is an art.





HEART




Even though memory is lost, Love will still exist

Light word
Light sadness
The screen buried in the heart was waked up by the familiar words
It does really pretend to forget or escape
The days you have gone
I learn how to live by myself
Lonely strength
Lonely smile
Just tell myself forget is a kind of happiness
At least no sorrow or worry any more
The meaning of life seems to be lost
Do not know where to go
Just want to be happy
Smiling confront
But has forgotten how to make the heart beat up again
Do not know whether I can tell you my thoughts
But do not want to let myself down again
Once think careless means standing up to the reality
Come to realize that I only live in my own world
Doors cannot open
And I cannot get out
Never ever





H303




There once lived a boy in a tall concrete tree,
Who yearned to be enrolled in H three-zero-three.
So when he was finally granted his chance he felt as light as a feather.
He packed his rucksack, and sailed to Manchester in all of its inclement weather.

Although things seldom went his way, he was never the one to make a fuss.
For now, it dawned upon him that he would have to be as resilient as a fortified truss.
Not too long ago, the consequences of many of his actions were resented by the nation’s taxpayers.
But he’d given up that life, for one of computing the second moment of areas.

Now residing alone, he was not much of a cook. His omelettes were always inexplicably chewy.
So he sat down at his desk in deep thought, trying to analyse the problem with equations of Bernoulli.
The experimental data seemed to suggest that the issue at hand was the flipping velocity.
He could not have been more mistaken however, as it was actually in the egg’s viscosity.

As winter approached, and he would work all day until the sun’s luminescence wore off.
It was no cause for alarm though, as the bulbs would save him, governed by the infallible laws of Kirchhoff.
Come nightfall, when he turned on the news, he saw nothing but strife, famine and police brutality with Tasers.
So he turned it off, in hopes that electricity would be better utilised and understood, just as he had with alternating current phasors.

To break this mind-numbing monotony of study, he decided to see the Opera.
So he tidied his room, put on his Sunday best and put away his books of Algebra.
Strutting to the ticket office, “Two tickets it shall be; front and centre”, he thought in his head.
Only then did he realise, it was one ticket too many, as he had not found his complex conjugate.

Undeterred, the young boy decides to keep calm and fix the situation without getting sad.
Off to the computer clusters he went, to design his own cybernetic significant other using AutoCAD.
Arriving at the workshop, he passed the technicians the blueprints. “These dimensions are all wrong!” they yelled.
“If you need things done right, do them yourself” he sighed. And so he began to lathe, mill, file, and weld.

His creation was perfect. Well almost, at least. She needed a source of power to begin her new life with grace.
So he fitted her with a 16-valve, turbocharged, four-stroke engine, with pistons angled hundred and eighty degrees out of phase.
He felt something was amiss however, as she had not been granted the gift of flight.
So the boy got two engines; a turbojet and a turbofan, and worked tirelessly to better his new machine through the night.

This was his ingenuity coming to life, as she looked right through him, trying to command his attention.
Only then did he realise, she would never amount to anything more than a mechanical abomination.
Looking her straight in her photoreceptive sensors, he told her to be gone, as she flew away in fear.
The young boy went back to the life he knew best; which was that of a mechanical engineer.






Judgement




In the darkest times, we come to you
coupling all our power.
But we’re too different; our weaknesses show
your mind it does devour.

We are the aspects of your life
that tell you how to act.
From good to bad, from bad to worse
we all make an impact.

Yet you rely on all of us
to put up a protective wall.
Through it all, you want to stay human
for united you stand, divided you fall.

We are one and the same,
separated we cannot exist.
Different influences inside your head;
These voices will forever persist.

And hence we face the greatest dilemma
do we split and be no longer whole,
or do we fuse together and watch
as it tears apart your soul?





Breath of Life




The world is dark and without form,
Man look around for help and assistance,
To perform his daily routine,
But found none.

He has to depend on his thought and thinking,
To move around long distance easily,
To reproduce it kind,
To check and balance his health Status,
To shelter himself,
To feed himself and his kind.

But this is aided by science and engineering innovations,
There comes the need for electricity for light and power,
Airplane for air navigation,
Ships, vehicles and trains for transportation,
Telephone for communication,
Calculators for counting large figures,
Microphones to aid public speech,
Computer system for bulky home and office work,
And the global community of boundless limit of existence- the internet.

The important of science and inventions standout among other chosen professions:
we are in your offices,
in your homes,
in your business,
in your hospital,
in work mechanic workshop,
in your life,
and in your daily routine,
and everywhere humanity and lifes exist.

The scientists and engineers are the world, because the world depends on us for its
existence and survival; by proffering solutions to emergence situations and diseases
that inhibit the existence humanity.





The Nature of Chemical Engineering




Sitting in the middle of a field, I notice signs of first principles rearing its head
As I gaze at bees zooming from flower to flower up ahead.
The innocent act of pollination is mass transfer in its simplest and truest form.
Why? Oh why, in Chemical Engineering, can’t that degree of simplicity be the norm?

The sun radiates up above warming me slowly
As a light breeze moves around me, taking some heat with it, quite easily.
Suddenly, the breeze picks up pace creating a state of disorder.
Describing this in terms of entropy could make me sound quite clever
Or cause people to say, ‘That does not make you sound any cooler’.

In the nearby river, the fish move as if they race each other.
Using the river currents, they show the effects of convective transfer.
It should be noted that this, for most systems, is a key design feature.
Little did the creatures and elements of nature know
That they too will be dependent on the concept of fluid flow.

As if to remind me of Manchester, the sky opens up moments later to let the rain fall down
And complete its life-cycle all over town.
Roots latch onto the water molecules, absorbing them to sustain the owner’s life.
In engineering, we do what we can to also keep nature alive.
As the underlying notion of sustainability is the right of all to thrive.

Under the right conditions, raw materials can be converted into products you know?
From seeds to plants I have watched them grow.
These are nature’s own pilot plants.
From photosynthesis to the fruits falling from the branches to be eaten by ants,
Nature is the oldest chemical engineer with a truly amazing talent.





BERLIN (2001)




Busy Boulevards,
Congested motorways,
People rushing by
And building sites everywhere,
Bringing in the new Berlin.






<Untitled>




Can we measure Time in years?

Not before the cosmic clock
Barely ticks, and Time, unlocked
Surges forth and grows the void
And fills the emptiness with noise.

But can we measure Time from noise?

Not before the orbits bind
And slowly turning spirals wind,
And clouds collapse, filling space
With light and ash and dust and grace.

But can we measure Time from Space?

Not before the Sun is born,
And underneath, the Rock is formed,
Not before the circle clears,
Leaving a tiny, delicate sphere.

Yet can we measure Time in years?

Not before Mankind was born
And, looking out beyond the Sun,
We wondered where All had begun,
And overcame our insignificant fears

To find our Age: Fourteen Billion Years.





Contemporary Science Gallery




Contemporary Science Gallery
Exhibition ‘Theoretical’ From Now to Future Paradigm Change

Piece 23:   Theory of Relativity
Einstein
Installation:   comprised of 5 symbols: 3 letters, one equals and a power of 2
Oil on canvas

A classic work from the post modernist, new (particle) wave movement.

Although note the absence of the ‘γ’ symbol used by the scientist in later copies of the piece.
In fact, Einstein came back to these themes many times throughout his working life,
Plagued and obsessed by the symbolic representation of his darkest innermost desires?

The influence of scientists Einstein admired is clear,
the use of ‘m’ term here, used frequently in works by Newton.

There are many different interpretations of the piece
Was the scientist making a social comment on our ever narrowing perspectives
As the pace of modern life increases,
Through the ‘Lorentz contraction’?

Who is this ‘Lorentz’ character? Does he epitomize global corruption?
Or does he refer to a person from Einstein’s own life?
A person who fascinated the scientist,
A person constantly ‘transforming’ himself?

But we will never truly know
There are no right answers
Only interpretations,
Only theories.

And c.
c.
Not C.
Drawn here as a ‘law of nature’
Out there somewhere? Or just made up?
Fast, relativistically speaking
But then. It’s all relative.

It’s all just made up things






LOSING MOMENTS




The History wants to exist,
What is the past?
It left us
And still it lives in us
Before we forget,
And after
Will the life end?

What is the Time?
Just a useful tool?
Or an essential remedy?
Hours, Seconds, Years
We are here,
But for how long?

Then,
My mind flies back
To recall
My first memories
And to save them





My Laptop, My Love




When I first met you
My heart beats fast
I know you are the one
No questions asked

Quad-core processor
With dual graphic cards
To say no to you
I find it so hard

We watched movies
In high definition
When I am far away
You are my form of communication

In designing stunning graphics
We always unite
Through all programming disasters
You are there, day or night

Such a colourful desktop
What a beautiful scene
But it is different today
There is only a black screen

Reboot, reboot
That’s all I can do
I don’t know what attacked you
I don’t know what to do

I sent you for repair
Hoping you will be better
So you can come back to me
And together we create wonders





Pauli, why must we exclude?




Feeling so empty, so basic, no one below
Manchester University first gave me my fame
Like looking in a mirror, I have no equal
Spinning up, spinning down, no two the same

Energy constantly changing, constantly looking
Could she be the ying to my yang?
Fr5om atoms to stars, this rule is took in
Applying anti-symmetry since the big bang






<Untitled>




and our grace fades to ages not yet spent
and days we were not ment to spend were lent
to places where we are frail and look admist
to claim ownership of lives came and forgotten
love became and for came the most of our wisdom
in some memory embrace
to remember a stolen sense of place
turned around to face the gods of fate
seems like all we touch turned to hate
tied to the mortal coil of a downward spiral
as soul escapes the aged hands, wrinkled and veined
to remember a fearless vivacious valour for this life replaced
by regress in evil worlds, with wounds, from body wrought
as it now divides from these shackles of unkind thought,
freeing us from the broken marriage with compassion
for living into decay and over our belief is the fashison.





I did my part




I'm standing on the rim of a pit
Where all my hopes and dreams can slip
Torn by two forces that are craving
My soul's obedient enslaving.

On one side there is fear with demons running
To make me fall through neverending pain
But on the other side the faith and will are striving
To free my spirit from the conscious bonds obeyed.

Just try once more, don't fear to fall,
Don't stop until you have it all.
Aim is to search, to prosper and to grow,
Through fallen minds that shine with darkness at your glow.

What if this time will be the last to shine?
What if your fire stops to glow and turns to ashes?
Constrain the voices in your mind to one that says:
“Keep up the fight and keep your heart in motion”.

Despite the means of those who question,
Who don't believe, don't want the change,
Retain the spark that gave your heart the reason,
To leave grotesque profanity away.

Discover new, don't fear the frightened,
Dispose of prejudiced confinement,
That holds you back, that shouts: “Don't go!
Thy will face failure on the runway!
Just look around, you will be laughed at,
No place for madman in this world,
Who thinks that he can even hope
To twist the thoughts of those who never listen
Whose hearts are empty, filled with doubt,
Distrust that keeps their minds diluted,
That taints the well of light you seek
Keeps you away from dreams and fearsome knowledge
That hide discovery behind the shrouded veil
Don't be naïve, you’ll go astray and fail!”

Their laugh and doubt will slowly turn to silence
As thoughts you had convert your energy to gold you seek.
Thought is the energy degrading into matter,
Creating wholesome image from the thoughts that were oblique.

When time will come to fade away,
With no remorse what will I say?
“I used my chance; pure in my heart;
Have no regret; I did my part.”





Cynosure




Friend of a friend, fancy tea?
Free this weekend? and bam
I sit on your floor,
child-rapt and voyeuristic,
watching you work,
all brow and wires.

Blind to the master plan
hidden in your mind's eye
I scrutinise your bookshelf
as your hands, obsessed,
pick at my peripheral vision.
True child of science.

You quiz me on magnetism
over our neglected lunches
and whilst my brain scrambled,
with your eyes searching mine,
did you see me falling
into your event horizon?





Push On




Push on, and think, vivid thinkers,
It is your light that banishes our fog,
Our world is dark, but through you it brightens,
And know, we move forward on the path you illuminate,

Push on, and create, noble creators,
It is your mind that shapes our existence,
Our world is formless, but through you it takes form,
And know, we move forward upon the path you forge,

Push on, and observe, keen observers,
It is your eye that focuses our future,
Our world is blurred, but through you it becomes clear,
And know, we move forward because you show the way,

And know, that we sit here, in danger,
Our world crumbles, but through you it survives,
It is your work that ensures our future,
Push on, and save, glorious saviours.





The Song of Light




The World breathed out, Its empty form moved not.
Denied a place to go, with all Its mystery
It would be always bound to rot, in shapeless history.

The World breathed in, with grave chagrin -
Its infinite dimensions locked in one,
With all the secrets they keep in. The World breathed in, deprived of sound.

###

Outside of time within nowhere, not with a sight, without a care,
Nor with a worry or a ruse,
Lacking a scene of any stare, nothing to hide, nothing to share,
Its thoughts let loose.

The beams lit up without an eye, the noise rang loud without a cry,
Its thoughts reached wide without a meaning,
Desire flew outside of skies, light fell through darkness in its night,
It started singing.

###

The singularity shook up,
From laws of naught came order, reason,
Through quantum effort It woke up
the senses that were but a vision.

Now It was ready for Its air,
It held the breath of thousand worlds -
The singing thoughts, through which to share,
Inflated in majestic verse.

The World breathed out and all about
the stanzas grew of light and mass,
The poetry of life spread out,
Still young, of trepid loneliness.

###

Its breath was deep, and greater than It knew,
Now like a child surprised by its reflection,
Through eyes of life It saw anew… Itself in action.

It saw the stars borne out in flames,
It saw the things It could not comprehend,
It thought of myths and gave them names. Of those a few were innocent.

###

The World was young, naïve and strange.
It now had eyes to look, and see,
In tender blindness yet It changed
affairs It witnessed blissfully.

Some things that frightened It were cast
in ignorance aside, until
The world grew up at last, and past
became extinct. But often still,
Some thoughts It tended to regress.
Most eyes were sane. Yet some were ill.

###

It still is young, still learns to see, still yearns to sing to self at night,
And those who listen carefully - those eyes can meet the song of light.






Axiom of Choice




Accept me or not, I've gained much importance.

In those early days, my presence wasn't felt,
When shoes abandoned socks, my cover began to melt.

I gave you rm basis, a way to climb peak,
I ordered you well, taught one of the two is weak.

You asked for my help; your problems weren't small,
I found ways back when you covered them all.

I uttered spells of magic, tricked one into two,
You lost faith in me and thought I'm a foe.

A sigh of relief; you realized your mistake,
Till forces convinced forever, our relation will be at stake.

Your life is hard, you choose me or not,
The choice is yours, there's better independence thought!





From Ingenuity to Marketability




From the mind of man it is conceived
With heart and feeling it is believed
Strong is the dedication with which it is achieved
To the delighted consumers it is finally received
Such is the journey of a bright idea
From the mind of a crazy fella
That everyone initially laughs after
Until it reaches the limelight of the media
Products so greatly cherished and loved
Did not come out of thin air
But by the belief that humanity is best served
When both heart and mind go in pair
The rational and scientific mind alone
Can produce works of great elegance
But to consumers they can be as heavy as stone
Unless sculpted into a product of magnificence
The creativity that gave rise to symphonies of Mozart
Is also what drives scientists to come up with great inventions
But unless they have the ability to appreciate art
Ingenuity fails to finds its way into things everybody mentions
The greatest inventors view themselves as artists
Bridging the elegance and beauty of great design
With the bright ideas of engineers and scientists
To create something that no one can resign
True ingenuity is found at the intersection
Of the rigid world of pure reason
And the unsteady and wavering world of emotion
Which are enough to put great things into motion
Few are those who can have the genius
Of a great scientist like Einstein or Feynman
And the ability to understand human impetus
One who does becomes a very powerful man
We witnessed such ingenuity in Steve Jobs
Who had the ability to distort reality
With a tremendous power that had no stops
Blending technology and art into products of astounding beauty
The ability to integrate mind, heart and will
Makes an unstoppable force of nature
That raptures the heart and makes the mind still
When contemplating and using the product of manufacture
Integration of reason and emotion thus creates ingenuity
That delights what we see
Whilst cherishing products having attained high marketability
Leaving us with an incredible feeling of glee





Coffee Break




Sitting on a grassy hill, resting
Raise my pen to link words
The gentle breeze won't inspire my thoughts
But sunrays leaked through the giant clouds hit me
The warmth makes me look around to find I look silly
Everybody chatting, laughing, playing but I'm holding a pen
It seemed to be stuck to my skin
I want to write great lines, or just anything
But the pen and paper appears to repel
My tension ascends even though passing by women were exceptional
Strangely, I felt it was essential to write a sentence
About the elegance of Rome or the beauty of Paris
The cruelty of poverty or the stupidity of politics
But I could not find a sense of purpose
Like most human lives
Like all my self-strifes
My coffee got cold while I attempted to write once again
I know I can't stop it since it ran through my veins
A self-conflict on which Idea was not old
A flow of concepts that needed to be told
Personal emotions that begged to be unfold
A way to re-fill myself with hope
Perhaps remind myself that money defines our current place
& Love creates our breathing space
An insect bite disturb my dreamy face
I realise I'm late and had to pick up pace
Anticipated to be back
Sitting on the grassy hill, participating in my minds' race





Awaiting heart




Why did you meet me? Why did you come in my life?
Just to leave Happy Memories In my mind …………....?

Whenever I thought of You, I merely found Vacuum
I could not hear you……….I could not see you…….…..

I wish I could stop the watch, Moments I could catch
Not to say anything…….But to hear something………

Why did you talk to me? Just to say Good Bye?
To keep everything away, As it‘s a Foe..……….?

I shall go ahead, that’s not a problem
But the question still remains there…

My life is full of Questions which are Unanswerable……...
Why did you add one more? To make it more Miserable?

You mean a lot to Me, I don’t know why
Is it right or wrong? I don’t want to pan

Every heart sings a song; I shall sing one for you
But not to say come back and I need you…......…

You were away from Me, I could see you far
You are still there,& that’s my fear

I could see diversions, you tell me why and where………..?
Ups and downs, Turns and rounds, Part of life, I too know that

Why you met me at the turn, which had a wide branch ……?
I knew our paths were different, why they came across?

Parallel lines never meet, Rules always have Exceptions
Can you prove It false……..?

Will it go long or stop at this point, Will it take a pause?
Or make me smile, At least once in a while …

I have no Expectations, I have no Regrets
I just want to say, don’t try to find Answers

Don’t even think of it, but always be Happy
That’s how I would like to see you soon…...

Days would come and go, Nights are twines
They stitch days, I wish them

To weave a cloth for you, Full of Zing and Zest
This is what I felt, the Day you Left……………





The uranium story




A yellowish ore waiting still, not yet blameful
Slowly spitting out power, its future unstable
In this there lies danger, but also potential
Ninety two protons with awesome credential

So extracted it was, and is, and will be
Enriched in dilemma and controversy
A forceful deterrent demanding complicity
Barely seven grams needed to flatten a city

Yet reactions are harnessed, the dark side denied
‘Manhattan’ forgotten, ‘little boy’ put aside
With moderation and shielding, acceptance is won
Generating opinions, the lights are turned on

But with useful life spent burning goes on unheeding
Not dying away but evolving and breeding
Daughters more toxic than even their parent
Expected, yet unplanned for, their malice inherent

A blind eye is turned and among us they stay
60 thousand year wait until they will decay
Lest they escape they’re encased and confined
A mistake to be buried from sight and from mind






<Untitled>




I am terrible autumn,
I pluck the golden leaves from the trees,
My vibrant cloak swirling around me,
Crowned by beautiful jewels,
I bring in cold winds from the North and prepare the lands for snow,
But in the end my enemy wins,
The bluebells start to grow.

Gone are the swirling colours,
Yellows, oranges, reds,
Now there are only dull flowers,
Rooted in their beds,
Gone is the excitement of conkers,
And the dancing leaves in the temperate breeze,
But now the humid days are cooling,
And a leaf drops from the trees.






<Untitled>




My childhood was infused with the royal virtues of science.
And the uselessness of everything else.
There were enough writers and historians and lawyers.
Plus, who needs them anyway?
Ideals imported from the Indian subcontinent,
Perhaps birthed by Imperialist days of old
Generations planted them firm, to be caressed and revered.
Mealtimes were the perfect platform for NHS propaganda,
Till these royal virtues broke my circuit of attentiveness.
Till evolution rendered me deaf to their claims.
Till every cell in my body rebelled against this dictatorship,
And every atom in my being refused to conform.
I turned with full force towards art and philosophical debate
Satisfied myself with politics and prose.
But during my excursions into the handiwork of poets,
I found myself questioning whether Byron’s stars truly did wander in eternal space.
As Mughal miniature paintings transported me to ancient India,
I could only focus on how the colours clung to the paper
And wove around each other and bled into each other at all the right points
And why some parts sparkled and some parts seemed flat.
I realised I may have been rendered deaf but not blind.
My attempt at rejection of what I defined as science spelt out irony,
In flashing neon letters, almost crude against the fragile antiquity I surrounded myself with.
My denial was denial of myself.
I tried to separate the inextricably linked.
I had seen science and the rest of the world as parallel lines.
They would only meet at infinity, and I had to take my pick between the two.
But then the light which I see by began to whisper to me.
In hushed, urgent electromagnetic tones.
It told me a secret. A secret our forefathers had uncovered many years ago.
The royal virtues cannot be filtered off from the ‘uselessness of everything else’.
They work together, they are intrinsically integrated, they are each other.
I can suddenly see so much further.
As my two worlds merge and gush into each other, my altitude changes,
I’m giddy up here, the air’s different, it’s moving faster.
Spinning and streaming and melting and freezing and melting again.
Changing.
I can see so much further, I look down,
And see that I’m standing on the shoulders of giants.





A Haiku On Engineering.




The lathe spins around,
Like a clay pot.
The artist goes to work.





Free radicals and valencies




Your heart so electophilically charged and my mind so nucleophilically depressed
the attraction between opposites triggering a reaction,
action-reaction is what makes the world go round.
I recovered my aromaticity with you,
certainly this love overtakes the physical… this love is chemical.

Your electron volts match with perfection
the energy that my makes my ground state electrons
jump in excitement to a higher energy level
and spontaneously fly off from their orbits producing a photoelectric effect
reflected in the brightness of my eyes when I see you.

We are all energy… we are all light,
despite the photons that I emit
your eyes of spectrometer break up my light,
seeing the true spectrum of the frequencies of light that I emit:
my ultraviolet radiation that likes to create reactive species and chaos in our stable bonds,
my visible light with colourful waves that beautifully twists into your eyes,
my infrared light that even when it is not visible you certainly feel its warmth
you are the only one that truly can interpret my spectrum and
discover the amount of energy I can absorb to favorably resonate in your lips

Your free radical nature drove your electrons to whoever was not sterically hindered.
Starting a never ending chain reaction by propagating your instability,
until reaching the termination with me.
Now our bonds are double covalent and closer
full of energy and unbreakable.

Even when our free pair of electrons can react with a lonely proton,
get oxidized, or our sp2 conformation changes to an sp3,
the bonds we share are forever and no acid or base will ever change that.
My bonds to you will remain like this,
until the matter that conforms us fuses into the energy of the stars.





Mass Spectrometry Lab




A humming sound permeates
A cold winter breeze
Icy light, truly white
Bathes plastic trees
With tube and wire branches
Sockets instead of leaves

Sitting still it is odd to think
About the vacuum in the room
Sudden darkness
Sudden fright
Underground a blinking red dot
Decides to give
Day or night

Each molecule is a puzzle
We need a vacuum to decipher
An answer
From emptiness
(and an electron multiplier)
Sometimes science seems
The epitome of magic
This unseen world we build ourselves
Set out, defined as logic





A Sonnet to the Scientist




My vastness stretches through time and space
Yet you capture my beauty and glory
An insatiable appetite burns in your race
A desire to know and explore me
Galileo admired my twinkling eyes
Newton noticed my bodies' attraction
Darwin discovered my creative guise
Marie Curie my radiant action
And without I'd fall into lonesome despair
I'd miss all of your musings and theories
I'm mysterious and volatile beyond compare
But you accept me despite all these wearies
Exploring my nature has left me half bare
With so many pleasures I’ve still yet to share





Engineer’s paradox




Stuck in the lab class or lecture hall all the afternoon,
We cling to the hope that we’ll be done with this “poxy” degree one day soon.
Studying about heat transfer, piston heads and aerofoils,
And if you’re thick enough to do civil, maybe even soils!
Non-engineers may call us a nerd, a geek or even a recluse,
We know they use it merely as an excuse;
To have a jab at someone with superior intellect,
All we can do, as scientists, is hypothesise on what to expect....
What puts a smile on our face isn’t a Nobel Prize or even how much our future job pays;
It’s just the knowledge that we’ll be running the world… one of these days.





Blueprint




The design works, it breathes
Abstract as it may seem
As it gracefully teethes
Bringing life to that unrealisable day dream

Everything in place now
All the units play in harmony
We tune and tinker
Yet simplicity is the prime

The pipe the fitting the joint
Does it give the best yield or conversion?
When finished we shall anoint
Abandon this total immersion

Energy and mass we shall balance
A new design a new function
Giving birth to a monster and then silence
Will it work will it function?





A Ballad of Hearts and Minds




The human heart was once a beast, alone amongst its peers,
And in its fretful dreams at night, re-lived its daily fears.
In the sun a mighty hunter, by moon a cowering child,
It's ears strained, to hear the unknown; afraid of what hid in the wild.

Storm clouds spilled over the mountains; roaring with electricity.
Searching for a path of least resistance, the lightening struck a tree.
The heart on instinct bolted, fleeing the burning pyre.
“Do not be afraid” said a voice from within, and the Mind turned and tamed the fire.


Beast became man, man became many and spread across the land.
When the Heart desired the mind perspired, making use of what was at hand.
Whilst the ground was conquered; from mountain to plain to moor,
those that lived by the ocean, dared not leave the shore.

Though the Heart yearned to travel, beyond the blue expanse,
to lose sight of the coast meant death to most, and survival came only by chance.
But the Mind with lodestone and needle, found permanence in the north pole.
The Heart now sure of direction, discovered its nautical soul.


The human Heart sat proudly, upon it's earthly throne.
But the wick of life was oft cut short, by forces of the unknown.
Kings abhorred the touch of the divine and knaves feared luck and chance.
The righteous and the wretched alike, joined Death in his macabre danse.

Whilst somewhere in the darkness, spores of suspicion infected the Mind.
“Disease must have a cause” it thought, “a cause, that we must find”.
Curiosity bore an idea: to look where there was nothing to see.
With lens they saw, with understandable awe, what the Mind called microbiology.


Mortality now a pace behind, the race around the world.
Understanding sailed from east to west and opportunities unfurled.
The planet was visibly shrinking, as more and more was known.
But a mile remains a mile long, and more away from home.

Man could ride the waves. Fast as the wind that filled his sail.
But radio shot from mast to mast, arriving without fail.
Heart to Heart, Mind to Mind, many become one.
A race of overachievers, striving to be outdone.


No more fearful dreams at night, mystery welcomed like a friend.
All necessity left behind, the Mind began to comprehend.
For years it had sweated and bled, to save the human Heart,
and now the shackles were finally off, the real work could start.






Great Discovery




You were created long long ago,
Formed in and by Mother Earth,
Destined for greatness, established with purpose.
Hence, they sought for you with thorough determination.

It was like eureka to Archimedes when they found you,
So, passionately they drilled to break barriers that trapped you,
With the best devices, you were extracted safely from the womb,
Emerging from darkness, you were introduced to the world.

And like great news that a baby is to its family;
Your appearance brought joy to your community,
Like everyone, you had a complex mix of components,
A complete form having great value and wealth.

At first sight, you appeared paltry, almost worthless,
So there on the platform, they separated and treated you,
Like a new born being cleaned from its mother’s blood,
To remove from you, bad from good.

Let’s say you needed distillation and desulphurisation,
When I required nurturing and a healthy-­living,
You needed hydrotreating and hydrocracking,
And I needed some orientation and lots of education.

So they sent the crude you to be refined,
Like the same thorough training I got in school,
To be effective in diverse ways, evolving endlessly;
As fuels, lubricants and a whole lot more.

The journey was very long and quite challenging,
Dedicated engineers devised continuous processes for you,
Ingeniously helping you achieve your purpose,
Just like parents and teachers, working hard to help me learn.

Finally, we were ready for our destinies,
I ruled my world, with knowledge and innovative solutions,
You conquered yours by providing energy,
Energy, that that transformed the modern world.





TRIBUTE TO THE FATHERS




The conservation of matter.
Born in the city of Paris
A barrister of repute, with a love for science, yet a tax collector.
A man of many talents;
You showed them how to light their streets.
Your brilliant mind, gained you a place in the history of Science.
Indeed, Lavoisier, you gave life to modern day CHEMISTRY.

Touted as the father of BIOLOGY.
You tutored the ‘Great Alexander’
A native of northern Greece,
Your beautiful mind was moulded in Plato’s Academy
Your remarkable talent of observation,
Propelled your interest in the nature of living things and in anatomy.
Aristotle, your name will forever be etched in the annals of history.

You proposed the theory of Kinematics
And improved the telescope to view the planets.
You gave us an idea of the solar system,
And informed us about how it looks.
They hated you for this, and killed you,
But your works continue to live,
On the pages of books and in the minds of critics
Galileo, the father of PHYSICS.





Structures




Disturbance shatters formlessness;

Pries all from nothing’s embrace

Drawing shadow from light

Shape from space

Movement:

The ellipse conveys point to line

The triangle, line to plane

Now purpose:

The arch, reaching into the distance

Searching for confirmation

Opposing shores united

Ideas connected into thoughts.



Just as humanity itself is found in spiraling clouds

So the Engineer finds humanity in the fruits of earth cycles

Connecting them

Making them familiar

Bending them to human will

Forces transformed ‘to desires

Pillars of rock into reaching arms and sturdy legs

The hand, through steel and concrete

Caresses the sky

Harnesses the wild flow

The familiar face, a glint in its eye

Staring reflectively into the sun

Within, thoughts of plan and purpose.



So, the structures of all humanity

Are cast forceful and bold by the Engineer

The two cultures only one

In flesh and stone.





He




He was taken in because his brain waves were like a solar storm
Feedback loops between the cortex and the thalamus
Didn’t stop for a couple of days making us all tired
Intellectual experiment gave us the genome,
Not so much different to Drosophila melanogaster
The enormous complexity of his organs and cells wasn’t a problem
We isolated all the proteins, broke the peptide bonds, synthesised oligonucleotides
DNA contact map was lightning up with untangled chromatin
Clusters for secondary metabolite production were firing signals
Lying on the silver bench, batching in chemicals, one and all left
Next meeting it was obvious we couldn’t save him
Like a child trying to understand the meaning of a mysterious black box
Gradually taking it apart and examining each bit one by one
All the parts eventually lying on the table
Not making any sense.

We had everything
But missed his Soul
And he wasn’t anymore.






<Untitled>




These white trees stand proud and tall,
Never changing through summer or fall.
Their long branches twist high in the sky,
I gaze at the field of them as I drive by.

The scenenery changes and concrete takes over,
With cooling towers high as the white cliffs of Dover.
The billowing gases colide with the clouds,
Hiding the skys beauty with its' cold ashen shrouds.

The world of energy has thousands of faces,
Leaving its' mark on millions of places.
From Brunel to Stephenson and all inbetween,
Energy's beautiful however it's seen.





Binary




Can everything that is,
That has been,
And will ever be,
Be reduced

To a series,
Of Ones
And Zeroes?

Our essence,
Fortunate collections of dust,
Suspended on a rock,
Drifting through time,

Nothing more than
Zero, One, One,
Zero, Zero, One.





Zero




Zero is a scary number.
Within its oval frame, lies a black whole.
an empty, eternity of nothing.
So quickly, Add and subtract before it's too late.





The Beauty of Chemistry




What could be more precious than the basis of life?
Every intricate molecule delicately designed
Nature’s own blueprints to a beautiful world
And all its features elegantly refined

Chemistry shapes our world from an empty canvas,
The building blocks of life can be known,
Of how one compound present in the basis of life
Is also in the most sparkling, desirable stone

The chemistry of colour enlightens our life
An everyday masterpiece in front of our eyes
Ice white displays from the flames of metals
And solutions reminiscent of the clearest skies

A composition of chemicals to save a life
Brings along hope and smiles so bright
Aurora displays from electrons’ excite
A blanket of magic across the deepest night

The conclusion reached: we cannot deny;
True beauty in chemistry is easy to find





Born




I am born,

Born of flesh, blood and bone
Bleeding blood as I grow bold
Being told what to believe
Only beauty I can see
In every building, book or bond
Bridges, birds and every dawn

Finding love on the first day
Fundamentally cliché
Equilibrium one-way
Bond forever from today

Lewis acids, basic truths
Turns out resonance is screwed
Catabolic or ionic
Electronic CATATONIC!

Lunch on the 6th, University place
Manchester below, freezing cold empty space
Many arms of steel, cradle trees of glass
Raining every day, why not snow for a laugh

A heart does beat in science
Chiral carbon, active site
Not just good old haemoglobin
Forming everything in life

Our show must still go on
Beauty being brought along
Brightly lighting theory string

Science!

The once and future king





An Automotive Symphony




First there's a rumbling,
A low thundering grumbling,
A drum roll comes tumbling,
From a shiny exhaust.

As if out of nowhere,
A triumphant fanfare,
A horn blast in mid-air,
As your foot hits the gas.

A part for the choirs,
Nuts, struts and wires,
Springs, plugs and tyre,
The notes in between.

Some harm'ny adds class,
With both strings and brass,
Rubber wipers on glass,
Sound soothing in rain.

A melodious tune,
With what? A bassoon?
A bright red saloon,
Hums round the bend.

Close crashing with cymbal,
And tapping of timbal,
Those brakes must be nimble,
To halt us with ease.

The symph'ny complete then,
At least work of ten men,
My question is where? When?
It'll showcase for all.

It's debut hits quota,
So turn off the motor,
A pump slows its rotor,
To rapturous applause.





A gaze of fiery eyes




Emitting from my state of daze a gaze of fiery eyes,
I watch the ground, I watch the place, the days just pass me by.
Could change my grief, could change my fear what here well covered lies!
My mind a pit, redemption sought, each thought a muted cry.

Oh, sweet old days of ignorance from whence we drew our sap!
The time we spent together here, so dear this distant past,
Sweet was the bliss that tasted I, the wider now the

,
The look of those two fiery eyes, it hies, it could not last.

And as I stare, right in my sight a bright young tree has grown.
It branches into empty space, I face its tips, so near,
Just like it fills the space perhaps the gaps will disappear,
Tomorrow make the shadows cease, bring peace to call my own.

But hark! my heart, don't yet grow cold and hold your last goodbyes!
I see right through the leaves' thick maze a gaze of fiery eyes.





Relatively Everything




Strange dancers amid the twilight
Orbiting planets held alight
Elliptically rotating above
Invisible hands that hold the dove

Like a coin thrown in a wishing well
On a spiral helter-skelter
Drawn into space-time’s infinite knell
A burst of white from an absence of light
From a supermassive we all rotate
Held by a force nothing can sate

Arms stretch across unfathomable space
Grip on the moon’s face
Fingernails digging in
Pulling tugging down
The moon hugs back pulls pools
Effects our tide
Holds the entire planet on its side

A frozen feather and a frosted hammer
Fall down to the iridescent ground
Fall together, rise dust cloud
In the cold void of space makes no sound
As a starry flag becomes a shroud

A constant wash of sand
Little balls in a loosening band
A stream of particles, specks of dust
Relate and collate
Come together form a globe
Upon which is placed invisible hope

Effectively everything effected
By this force of mass’ invention
To it we owe our very existence
It began with an apple
And ends with a…..






Chemical Engineering: Sustaining Life




What in this world is more precious than life?
Than plants, animals, a Man and his Wife?
All that is living is sacred and precious
So the task to conserve it can get very serious…

As a human on Earth, what would we do,
Without the essentials, like water and food?
Clothing, warmth, and medicines for illnesses?
Who helps prevent outbreaks of diseases?

When aid is low, to countries in need,
No water, no shelter, nothing to feed,
We tackle the issues, with lives in our hands,
Solving the problems to meet the demands.

We triple the yield, and use half the space,
When making the drugs used all over the place.
We take what chemists do in their labs,
And scale it up, to mass produce jabs.

What about warmth, what about transport?
We help pump the gas to heat up the home.
We help develop new fuels for cars,
Like bioethanol, fermented from sugars.

With everything here, waste is produced,
But with our help, it can be reduced,
Through recycling, efficiency and synthetic replacements,
We decrease the strain on nature’s resources.

All of these things, together combined
Help conserve our planet for future mankind.
What do I do? What’s my career?
I’m a future Manchester Chemical Engineer.





The Antarctic Cavern




Its cold down here,
Away from the atmosphere.

The sunshine here has never shone,
To hypothermia life is prone.

The ones who lived were almost dead,
glaciated by the periphery of boundless snow bed.

The audible silence is never diphthongized.
To hinder it none but God is authorized.

Sky's their home,nostalgic ice crystals urge to fly,
but with Threnody sung, their fate here was to die.

Walls tell, they tried but the mayday calls froze,
Lost to the might of time, to the heaven their spirits rose.

But the time not mighty enough, felt the chill, its paced down,
Dethroned and ashamed, it passed to the cave, its frost covered crown.

The air here is rotten,
Existence of life forgotten.





Construction




I will build her up from nothing, from dust and earth, from the very foundations.
From bones wrought in iron and sinews of cable, skin of liquid stone.
She will stand tall, scraping the sky.
My vision will be the air in her lungs,
And people will be the blood in her veins,
Filling her with laughter, tears, heat and electricity,
Lighting up her eyes from the inside, that she may look out at the world around her, and wonder.






<Untitled>




The iridescent light,
Of a consequence that just might be caused by the movement,
From one level to another.

Just because it can’t be seen,
Does not mean it can’t be reflected back,
Too high in energy, a colour which one can not comprehend,
Absorbed, re-emitted in a form friendly to the eye.

Maybe the energy will linger,
Build up over time, as forbidden states do not allow the change,
But the altercation does not stop.

Light lingers forth,
And shines.





The Science of Rhymes




Engineers and scientists we maybe,
constrained by physics and the fundamental laws;
but that does not limit our creativity
or our dreams that help us reflectively pause.

Dreams that logic and rationale can explain!
For as the apple fell from the tree and Newton dreamt below;
behold thy wonder! Newton’s excellent brain
defined gravity as we know.

The enjoyment of beauty is not unavailable to us
but we appreciate an unorthodox beauty;
of numbers, charts and formulae, of Einstein’s magnum opus
The Theory of General relativity.

Naysayers say that science and human emotion
are destined to never meet;
but Archimedes’ shout of EURAKA! was filled with passion
and so was his naked flight along the streets of ancient Greece!

What man has reasoned we call science and God is what we cannot unravel
both always seem to be a hair breadth apart;
much like God and Adam’s outstretched hands in the Sistine Chapel
reaching out to ignite the spark.

I grew up studying both Sciences and the arts
fascinated by both in equal measure
as I was by playing tennis, football and darts
and tales of lost and hidden treasure.

But soon my intellectual craving and questioning
would not be satisfied by economics and literature;
it is only in Maths and Physics after much braving
that I at last found the answer.

But that does not mean that human emotion
remains alien to my kind.
For although it may seem Science receives our utmost devotion
it is by no means a fact of life enshrined!

Those that believe the two cultures are so apart,
ought to feel contrite!
For no poet or writer or anyone from the arts
wrote this poem that you now recite.

So, those who separate the Humanities and Sciences and in it take delight
such thinking will lead you astray!
Life you see, is simply not all black and white
but several shades of grey.





Dynamics




First degree of freedom structures – to incommensurable thinking
to Dr. A. Bell
Stochastic motion has no sense?! / There should be something to commence.
That’s why the abstract trigger-happy stays / In front of all we have to say.
The first few steps we’ll have to do / resume to loads from dynamic point of view.
Now keep in mind the simple things, / you’ll further find the match affair.
Who heard of Newton thinks he’s smart; / He states the 2nd low as art
Equilibrating mass and force, / At once we wonder where it goes;
Then run back over stiffness lost / and damping of a single post.
But when it comes to force the drum, / it will always vibrate to sound
The same as drum it is the Earthquake, / it hits in quick and has no break
But we are smarts and chord the drums / avoiding resonance in a glance.





Truth, Subject and Beauty




My father was a man of Science
believed reason triumphed o'er all
Said that knowledge was of power
yet I detested such drawl

Told him; 'science is of stunted beauty'
it believes in nothing but itself
Nothing more than fear of faith
cowardice on a shelf

Ask, 'what is truth?'
hear an answer from a simple man;
God is truth, death is truth
is truth lacking any plan?

Beauty is of the subject
maybe nothing more than sham
Can I find this in your God
if I strip away all that I am?

To this he did say nothing
only a smile did meet his face
In spite of my firm discontent
he showed me this fair lace

A fine piece, it was
complexion of pure white
Strength of a diamond
but just a feathers weight light

He asked if I saw beauty
and if I knew the reasons why
I told him that I did
and to which he did reply;

You may see a lace of white
lace of strength desire
You may see both these things
and all that you admire

These are truths that man can test
understand and reason why
This beauty can be known by all
these truths will last all time

But this is not what I see
in fact these truths merely underlie
What I see is your mother’s dress
the day I first met her eye

This is something only I can see
and with my death shall fade
It is truth that only I shall know
and only I it offer shade





Living Virtually




Zuckerburg and Jobs are the names you know.
Not the thousands working away at their desks
that never receive the glory press.

Parents let their children run wild without a second thought -
the same ones who have to be in before dark.
Some are obsessed, they think they’re giving
undivided attention. But in this kid's room alone
it's different, now there's a picture of her breasts
on her profile and everybody's out
working away at their desks, too far away to stop it.

Lives are stored on hard drives:
as temperamental as desperate housewives;
one day running without a worry -
the next, the blue screen of death,
calling the children back in a hurry.
They're miles from where you are.





Confessions of a Hit Man




A bullet travels silently through the cold night,
En route to a one most unsuspecting soul,
His blood on my hands smeared by another’s cause,
I am but the executioner, not the decider;

I do not need much but there is not much I do,
I do what I can to help those I love,
Sold my soul I have to show my affection,
But never shall they know, such is the curse;

Each day I repent but I do not dread,
For I am prepared to accept the punishment that fits best,
Yet each morrow I wish that I did not exist,
For if I did not exist, I would not have hath to live;

Take this as my confession and my message,
I need no pity, mercy or sympathy,
I only ask to be understood,
To serve as an example of the turmoil that is life;

I can not justify myself,
But I can not do much else either,
Men exist to provide to every heinous act,
I myself pretend to be no deity or lord;

I can feel, I do have a heart,
I only kill those who are engaged in evil with other evil men,
Yet life is a gift that is not mine to take,
And with that my pen is forever laid to rest.






<Untitled>




Sciences alter
Laws with modest majesty;
Faith is reseeded.





Knowledge




A string of knowledge,
A book with no ending,
A circle.

The path covered,
The mountain higher,
It never ends,
It's no liar.

We read together,
I pass it to you,
It continues,
Who knew?

The mind wonders,
The body stay,
The beat continues,
We simply decay.

A string of knowledge,
A book with no ending,
A circle..





The first 20 elements in the periodic table




Hydrogen, Helium, Lithium, Beryllium
Is where it all begins
The periodic table of elements in chemistry
Is here for all to see.

Boron, Carbon, Nitrogen and Oxygen
Are the next four gears in this machine
All progressing with an increase in atomic number
Showing their riveting characters as they differ.

Fluorine, Neon, Sodium, Magnesium
Are the next building blocks of the entire sum
Furnace linings, Dessicants, Lights and Toothpaste

The result of putting the elements into production.

Aluminum, Silicon, Phosphorus and Sulphur
Sit next to each other in scientific rapport
Chlorine, Argon, Potassium and Calcium
Bring the first 20 elements' ship to shore.


And so there they stand, as eloquent poetry
The first 20 elements in chemistry
But wait! What about the other 78?
I have no time. We’ll save that for another date!





An Engineer Stole My Heart




You had me at 'renewable resources'.
I remember the first time we met.
You tried to explain to me why wind farms
Are really just USING energy,
Not creating it!
They stand on hills mocking rich eco-warriors
By slowly stealing from their bank accounts,
Just like the way you stole my heart.

It was love at first sight
When you beamed me a smile
In the laser laboratory.
We spoke for hours about what caused
The humping and deep penetration.
As it turns out, it was that coffee you bought me afterwards.

They say love is blind,
But I know that isn't true
Because it was all I could do to stop myself from staring
At your rigid member.
To this day I'm impressed by the structural integrity of
Your solid body.

When it came to computational flow dynamics
You blew me away.
I was hypnotised by the vortex shedding
In your turbulent flow.
The day I witnessed your streamlined aerofoil
Was the day we increased our friction coefficient
And hence decreased our Reynolds number.

Every day I am grateful
For the forces between us
Causing those moments
And making us a couple.






<Untitled>




Struts and trusses, bridge.
A failure in construction,
Alas; bridge fall down.





Knowledge




Man is merely knowledge of existence, thoughts
Evolving with the works of the ones he taught
Some lost and forgotten in time, unsought

Owners of each era bequest
Egyptian, Greek, Arab and West
Ascending to the heavens like a tower coalesced

He hops on his Science and flies through the skies
Sees the dark and distant with expanding eyes
Decondenses fog over phenomenon once disguised

But he hasn’t yet explored hidden worlds, future homes
Only a fraction of its degree is known
Its realm is an infinite, limitless zone

His thoughts and dreams uplift the veils
Unravel potentials that physics entails
Perhaps we teach those who surpass the stars, alas set sail!





An Ode to Ohm




There once was a man called Georg Ohm,
Who was a difficult subject for a poem.
He showed great persistence,
And multiplied current by resistance,
To work out voltage to stop circuits being blown!





The Library




With its neatly trimmed hedges acting as ramparts,
Protecting the land from prying eyes.

A dried out moat surrounds the false castle,
Revealing the bottommost reaches of the stronghold.
Here the library sits snugly at its base.

Inside the air is filled with the smell of unused books
And cheap deodorant, wafting upwards to the striped ceiling.
Together they form an invisible mist of university essence.

The auburn shelves tower over their realm,
Guarding their subjects fiercely.
No books will be leaving the library today.

Neatly arranged into compact sections with only the occasional squabble:
Medicine is invading Music,
No doubt the loser will be relegated to empty Dictionary.

The dim overhead fluorescent lights flicker,
Illuminating a single student sat at one of the marked desks,
Where crop circles dot the tables from illegal cans and cups.

His blank expression indicates he is working on statistics.
The hieroglyphs on the display project onto his face in the poor light,
As if he was wearing an ancient burial mask.

The wireless box on the oak bench flashes with glee at his plight,
Green fireworks exploding in silent laughter.
Wires snake from its brain into the whitewashed wall.

The aged shelves creak and whisper to each other,
Wondering if the student will ever leave them alone.
But alas his expression remains vacant and his face as still as stone.

It will be a while.

The computer whirrs in agreement.





Messenger




Oh seeker of knowledge
Do you Seek the thread of reality?
What tool will you use?
How will you investigate its non-triviality?
Do you know who I am?
I am that aid you have sought
Illuminating your world is my purpose
Though, ever free I be from your comprehension
I am intangible, i am unimaginable
I be a metaphor for some, and a serene reality for all
My true nature you knoweth not
My true beauty still alludes your thought
I am that rays that can penetrates all worlds
However fine or grand, they are all same to me.
I might change my behaviour at plancks length
But you’ll have to create a pico-yocto second laser, to know where things end.
I am within you and around you.
I can be born in the hearts of pulsating stars.
Diffusing my way to the surface at last.
My start and my emergence some million years apart.
I am the currency through which you may conserve energy
With the excited electron, hoping to the valence band.
I can represent a stars symphonic order, or the illuminating architecture
Even audio ballerinas may find an artistic illustration.
I can take many forms, in varying colours and speeds,
From a guassian profile, to the novel Bessel beams
I can control the invading virus, or illuminate a trapped nano-fibre,
With the right polarization i can even shade your vision from harm.
In blue i be cool, unabsorbed by the oceans lure
As red I bring news of departing friends you never knew.
Infra-red is a peculiar existence, you’ll surely find me brightly warm
I prefer to be gamma-ray bursts, proof of hypernova’s occurrence
Every iota of my being, carries some message from entities i meet
From simple Faraday rotations to the quantum de-coherence states
In every formation, in every alteration,
Even in my polarization, i be full of information.
My curved trajectory was proof of Einstein’s theory
That even I could not escape gravity’s charm
Hawking thought me black holes evaporations,
But i may turn out to be the same old radiation.
So like the romantics of the past
With eloquent metaphors and my personification
On me, You may write a poem from your heart
For i am light, the messenger of our physical realization.





NO LIMITS




Where did it start and will it ever end,
Some technologies keep us alive and others are there to set a trend,
Science and engineering has created the world we know today,
Changing the past in every single way.

An old letter would take days to get where it’s planned,
Nowadays you press a few buttons and it’s sent in your hand,

An old computer used to not fit through a normal door,
Now it’s not surprising if a home has 3 or 4,

Who would have thought, in an hour, that your clothes could be clean,
Then not too long ago came the washing machine,

Travelling around the world used to be a dream where you wouldn’t go far,
Now we have aeroplanes, hovercrafts and even solar powered cars.

So much used to be unknown about things like an atom and a shining star,
Now one is known to be a million light years away and the other makes us who we are

There may not be an answer to every problem that comes our way,
However solutions are created every single day,
For now take a look and there will be something that you find,
An aspect of science and engineering that will blow away your mind.





REQUIEM FOR THE EARTH




Moving chicken or the egg? Which came first is the question I ask. The beauty of science is to produce answers to such tasks.
The modern day bridge between myth and fact to solve questions of how, why and when from stories so abstract.
Providing us with figures that are more exact to feed the query as the hunger fuels.
The reason is we or the enigma of us, spaceships into our universe with never ending thrust.
And of course, there has to be an opposite reaction. For the debris ejected, affects our own clouds interaction.
A geoid, our world, and the beauty she was. Now full of mascara of pollutants and dust.

Mother nature’s upset, with the tsunami she yells with earthquakes, hurricanes and volcanic ash she expels.
The good children amongst us are the scientist you see, who takes care of our world and the future to be.
Not only of her but their siblings, ourselves whom through bad living have created their own problems of health.
They live in our hearts and our knowledge we impart cures to their ways to prevent an early depart.
Everyman must die this proposition is true, from flesh to dust and back to the soil.
The prospect of living forever, scientists are yet to unfold.





Untitled




It began quietly; only to be heard not saw,
A steady beat of drums, the oncoming of war,
The ship sailed ahead; ignorant of its fate,
All seemed calm, all seemed to sate,
The waves reared back with the prey in sight,
The fury of nature, an ancient might,
The gauntlet was thrown but flung aside,
There was nowhere to run, no way to hide,
The first charge was borne with a wooden shriek,
Safe waters were gone; far beyond reach,
Men scurried in fear as they tugged at the sail,
But with little use, to no avail,
The second front attacked as a howling wind,
Ruthless and harsh, it would not rescind,
The cresting battering ram resumed its advance,
It toyed with the boat; a teasing dance,
Then the crushing blow was dealt from up a high,
No time to pray, no chance to cry,
David faced Goliath but with fear in his eyes,
Surrounded by hell and a blacked sky,
The yawning abyss drowned out the silent regret,
Consumed the body for all to forget,
The defence was over as quickly as it had begun,
The clouds had cleared, out emerged the sun,
The danger lay buried beneath the deep,
The threat was gone, forever to sleep,
The trespassers had strayed too far in the unknown,
Now the waves lay calm, once more alone.





God’s Room




In the kingdom of heaven
God sits upon his thrown in his room
He looks down upon his creation
Humans are no longer his race to groom

His room is heated by a torch
In his presence, a man-made appliance
The strength of humanity radiates from it
Fuelled by the power of science.

Outside the soft-lit window
Stands a tower of glass and steel
Built from mortal visions of heaven
By Men of immaculate zeal

In the shadow of the hallway
The horror of a mushroom bloom
Shades of grey, of pain. His children slain
The fallen angel’s task resumes.

Huddled in a shaded corner
Sits a creature, betrayed by humanity
Abused with substances, it suffers
Symbolic of Man’s depravity


And on the long metallic table
Blood flows from a young, wounded man
A wizard works with healing hands and sharp eyes
This young man will once again stand

And up! upon the star studded ceiling
Floats a man in outlandish suit
He looks down through god with awed amazement
Cannot see, but is close to the truth

So, God now opens his leather-bound masterpiece
He cherishes man’s achievements.
Glory, pain and success. His mistakes. His conceit
There are empty pages waiting
In a story that is far from complete





A journey




When there will remain nothing at all,
Those which remained will seem no more.
Yet when there exists, there is a call
From within, to unravel a story from afore

No reason to leave the comfort, or the dark,
That shelters one from the blinding truth,
Still, the mind is set and ready to embark-
On this journey; is it a frivolity of the youth?

Some which may exist as one delves in deep,
Makes one wonder if all is a mere imagination
Flying out far; see what had been before time’s leap,
Almost gives the theory its confirmation

Merely a speck in someone else’s game,
Or so it would seem, when none can explain.
The meaning of you and me, and how all became;
When all is gone, that question may remain.





Poem




To wonder that common sense and logic are discarded,
That facts alone stand like grand pillars of power
In propping up the jewel of modern physics; quantum theory.
Subjected to close scrutiny, this theory has been bombarded,
By great minds like Einstein, who sought only to devour
The notion that chance could play a crucial role in this field.
Yet this theory has risen through the eddying mists of ignorance,
And is inspirational in showing the true beauty of science.
But, accessibility is seemingly reserved to a select few,
Which has estranged the theory and made it taboo.
What beauty surrounds us, that we should show
Such blind indifference, with a wanton smile.





Insight into the World of Physics




We search for answers every day, in every place and every way;
We photograph stars and we learn from that, then we ‘umm and arr’ about Schrödinger’s cat.
We scratch our heads and chew our pens, and crack our jokes about spherical hens;
We make wild guesses then prove them wrong, the thirst for knowledge drives us on.

With every answer comes more theory, but we never let this make us weary;
We analyse and then explain, the fundamental truths of this ‘science game’.
So I write my poem to hush the cynics;
My ‘insight into the world of Physics’.

Classical Physics is the place I will start;
Galilean Relativity and Newton’s Laws at its heart.
We use it to study things like planes taking flight;
Things bigger than atoms, and slower than light.

Electromagnetism is the next place to go;
With Ampère and Maxwell stealing the show.
It’s all about E-fields and B-fields and such;
But it’s basically maths so I don’t remember it much.

Then we have Quantum, it really rocks;
If you don’t believe me, ask Brian Cox.
It’s for small things in physics which don’t quite behave;
So we treat them as BOTH a particle and a wave.

Particle Physics is about things within things;
And people enjoy the challenge it brings.
It’s a bit like a jigsaw of constituent parts;
With Bosons and Mesons, and Hadrons and Quarks.

Nuclear Physics is one of the perks;
It’s enthralling to know how the nucleus works.
For the protons and neutrons to stay in their space;
There are such complex forces to hold them in place.

There are others of course, these are but a few;
There's Solid State, Astro and Thermal too.
Many fields to research with interest and fervour;
Give ample rewards to the keenest observer.

So this is my insight, for people to see;
Just how excited physics gets me.
But here's the big fact, and no-one should doubt it;
Our world would be literally nothing without it.





The history of science




Eons before the first sun dawned,
Void mist harboured a phenomenal storm,
Then a wee imbalance set the wheels in motion,
Fuelling the beginning with unparalleled explosion;

Creation brewed in epic endeavour,
With Nature’s humility and thunder’s tremor,
As proved by Darwin, that destroyer of Eden,
Evolution of the living under bleeding helium;

Civilisations built with beads of sweat,
As progress trudged with nary a regret,
Archimedes said, after at length he had mulled,
“With a suitable lever, shall I move the world”;

When the world believed that the sun revolved,
Around an earth where myths stood tall,
Entered Copernicus to shed some light,
On the truth in bleak, disillusioned twilight;

Although he was backed to the hilt,
By Galileo Galilei, both free from guilt,
They were condemned and their beliefs banished,
Their works destroyed and images tarnished;



A lonely soul under an apple tree,
Inspired an age of discovery,
Newton sought answers whilst others merely wondered,
No hurricane did hinder him, no earthquake nor blunder;

As the dark ages passed and Renaissance was unsheathed,
A brilliant young Parisian named the air we breathe,
Lavoisier’s impressive research had merely begun,
As he studied not in vain about humble oxygen;

Baron Ernest Rutherford split the meek atom,
With a flair sublime, his theory considered dictum,
With clairvoyant vision and nay a stray thought,
He breached the gates of realms unsought;

The age where candlelight battled darkness,
Was subtly eclipsed by the sheer prowess,
Of Thomas Edison as he nonchalantly illuminated,
A century where innovations were vehemently liberated;

With zeal unfettered and visage grizzled,
Walked amongst us a giant, a wizard,
Few can comprehend, none can outshine,
The theory of relativity, expounded by Einstein;




Humble beginnings of the information age,
Were stumbled upon by an impressive Charles Babbage,
He stretched the limits of human excellence,
The world embraced computers with fervent diligence;

With Gates at the frontier, new avenues explored,
Paradigms, in copious curtains, bestowed,
The doors to limitless prospects thrown open,
Windows fluttered ambitiously, all concordance broken;

With the genome mapped and nature cloned,
We seek to inherit the universal throne,
With science comes progress as we play our own chord,
But beware the consequence of playing God…





Sciencineeratry




Sciencineeratry
We begin with science near a tree,
A life, more a shot of life, here we see,
A branch, to a twig, to a leaf, it extends so all life can be,
Yet you may wonder and ponder, search and sconder,
Surely not here,
No, not here
But further and beyond her we see.
Through the eyes of the Y’s we see.
Be grateful to hubble and lovell,
To reynolds and Rutherford,
To Edison and Bohr,
To newton and more,
As E does not equal M square of C, except under a light,
Where under a scope it can be seen with the help of those before for sure this is the answer to what do you mean?
I mean amen, to those great men and women, for i can see the life beyond the tree.
And ohhh how it starts with a bang,
A big one at that,
With a stretch greater than my minds reach, and stars brighter and born to teach.
So here i am, only to preach,
Not knowing for sure,
How it will end, a twist of God or the big bore.
But of course,
here I am, with a googolplex of a chance, here still,
Still here, and here forever i shall be,
As understanding is the key, as without me this moment cannot be, and no other can be me, so i hold myself still, and as brisk as a chill.................
I am back with my running water and hot air, the floor beneath my feet, unaware of the future mare, Without a care, with forgotten thanks to the engineer.
And so to those of you who think dim of the engineer, think again, then twice more, look outside and in your mind beyond the tree and switch on your light so you can C.





An Outsider’s Perspective




Arriving during the shadow of the sun,
Miles above the blue-green plum,
We anticipated a society,
Aware of their entropy, their fragility.

Light returned, like rivers flood plains
To uncover a life or whatever remained.
Mass as detailed as a hundred images in one,
This quietening beauty it did us all stun.

Scanning for inhabitants without trepidation,
Assessing the life forms and their creations
Findings came in with crushing disbelief,
A scene of unending complexity played just beneath:

Top predator, it seems, was on four wheels,
A metal unit which survives on black liquid meals.
Fluid, controlled, they swarmed through the grey
Disposing of waste humans along their way.

Vast triangular prisms found as old as our journey,
Stood breathless in their monumental glory.
Unnatural precision on an unthinkable scale,
Its mere existence akin to fairytale.

A common theme spread over the land,
Was a material of water, cement and sand.
Took forms of beauty or just enough to suffice
Its effective simplicity, an engineer’s paradise

An expanding race, surviving, exploring
A glimpse of ‘human nature’ showing
Because the imagination behind a design
Shines as our creations are forged in time






<Untitled>




One a Shakespeare, the other a Pascal.
one iambic pentameter contrasts
a wager of kind probability,
as one portrays God, one deduces God.
... (or reduces)
... (or disproves)
... (or contains)
... (or ... you understand.)

Buildings built on castles of literature
while manuscripts penned beneath The Globe
of the world, by streets of asphalt.
The ill-advised fails to reckon this:
of an engineer this ink is painted
by the fancy of a colourful mind
both logical and creatively daring,
and fantastic as a wild unicorn.

Indeed,
we all fail, just as engine's err,
to grasp how both
art and science, right and left,
inspiration and hard work,
all come from the same source
of man's blessed mind.





The Island of Man




The island of man
Is alone in a sea
Of the dark and unknown,
Of the deep mystery.

The only prevailer
Gainst the crushing black tide,
Is the knowledge of man,
Not his wealth nor his pride.

Science clothes us and feeds us,
It heals all of our ills,
Describes the motion of missiles,
The formulation of pills.

It builds all of our bridges
And puts fuel in our cars,
Explains purest rose petals,
And will put men on Mars.

From Euclid to Wiles
The world is in math;
The formation of a snail shell,
A crown in a bath.

And physics is motion,
And the light of the sky.
Ironclad theories
Hard to deny.

Then Chemistry comes along
With flashes and bangs
But from its radiant solutions
All humanity hangs.

And the art of the eye,
Indeed all the sublime,
Is Biology's province;
Nature's rhythm and rhyme.

Then Brunel and his like
Put science to labour,
For it is the marvels of mankind
That the engineers favour.

And while the arts may enrich
Our fleeting existence,
The future is the scientist's
For their dreary persistence.

So despite the vast black,
That belittles our minds,
Man's small island is growing
With all of his finds.





The Void Fraction




The void fraction is the reason why we can get pure coffee,
‘Pure’ coffee is so often impure,
Impure coffee is the reason why we need to design filters,
Filters that should be needed to filter out our thoughts,
Thoughts that can be filtered by drinking our impure coffee,
Impure coffee will frustrate us,
Frustration will lead to dissatisfaction,
Dissatisfaction will go back to having initially calculated an incorrect void fraction,

Recalculate the void fraction and repeat,
Impure coffee again,
Dissatisfaction,
So is the void fraction really valid?
Only solid fluid systems can tell...





Poetry meets Science




Without Wilde’s wit, or Shakespeare’s quill, or Tolstoy’s mind or Camus’ will,
Where would we be in such broken times, without these plays, without these rhymes?
Such objects of beauty are to this day unrivaled, unmatched & unmeasured,
Created only to be shared, enjoyed, kept & treasured.

*

Their benefits however are always to be debated,
For emotions today are sadly considered overrated.
But what of the pen & paper or the chair & table too?
And what of the bridges, the buildings to name but a few?

*

What of these facts & figures, these details of man’s great plan,
Where do they feature in Art’s discerning span?
These have style, beauty & are functional too,
They have a use, a purpose, a way to help us through.

*

So surely we should tear down these ‘works of art’ with immediate effect,
To make space for the facts and figures of which we seem to neglect.
But is this wise, as in such climates it’s so easy to forget,
That things do not always need purpose, that rule is not set.

*

Just look at religion & what science has done to that.
It’s as if it stared faith directly in the face, paused & then spat.
Look at today’s life and all the despair it brings to the table,
Purpose & reason are all enforced in us like children a fable.

*

So after careful contemplation the solution is not so clear,
It sits unanswered along with questions like why are we here?
But do not despair, do not weep or abandon hope,
Life needs some mystery, some deviation so you can cope.

*

I will tell you this however so this text is not obsolete,
There is common ground where these two sectors actually meet.
For now you will be shocked and must revere,
For this poem my friend, was written by me, an engineer.






HIJK_MN_PQR_ _ UVW




HIJK_MN_PQR__UVW is a free verse poem, split into 7 stanzas. It pictures the life of a scientist through his fame. To add further spice to the poetry, narration is changed in each stanza as shown below:

Stanza 1:
Scientist before fame
Stanza 2: Truth (that the scientist seeks)
Stanza 3: Scientist during fame (world-renowned)
Stanza 4: Unity
Stanza 5: Scientist in his grave
Stanza 6: Science highlighting the importance of unity and respect to the new generation
Stanza 7: Note by poet





Trial and Error




Young, naïve, foolish,
Head warns of misfortune,
The Heart promises a magnificent high,
One of which, in youthful haste,
Is taken without second thought.

Enchanted seconds,
Humble minutes,
Blissful hours,
Innocent days and otherworldly times,
As each pass by,
I soar higher, into the far reaches of heaven.

My senses desert me,
Blindfolded by love, I fail to see what is to befall me;
A dagger to the back,
Harsh undertones penetrate the ears,
The scent of another, trespasses,
The taste of defeat is too bitter to bear,
As I complete my fall from grace.

Little by little, piece by piece,
The sands of time shift,
Until fond, yet hurtful memories,
Become everlasting footnotes in history.

After what seems like an age,
I find myself at a repeat stage,
The Heart promises more then before,
My head, although willing, warns of previous perils.
I muster my courage, clearly with fire I long to play,
Quickly I’m choked by my losing fear.

You’ve got to think high
To rise above the enemies of mind, body & soul
For the man who thinks he is beaten, is,
But the man, who thinks he can win, will.





Wonder




What drives your devotions has the very same start.
It’s WONDER:
a fundamental muse to us all,
When absent, focus scatters as leaves in a squall.
The Lyricist can capture this wonder in verse;
While science quantifies it, for better… or worse.
So methods of description have set you apart,
Regardless of this, both flow from the heart.
I put to you, science is wonder understood,
While poetry describes it as nothing else could.





Alone




Walking slowly,
alone.

Suddenly I feel a breeze that blows softly,
gently,
it is Windy who wish me,
and I’m now in a state of warm snug comfort, cosiness,
a state that I longed for,
who says
I’m alone?
again, Windy kiss me
and she’s now gone.

Walking slowly,
alone.
I see a yellow Maple Leaf leaving his master,
flying, enjoying his freedom.
Oh! It’s Gravity,
or what I prefer to call him, Uncle Gravvy.
He is an attractive, lovely old man, very old man.
Everything falls towards him,
never permit us to stray away.
I know, he is always holds me, accompany me.
Who says I’m alone?

I am now,
at the top of a hill,
where everything surrounds me.
I look up and see Aunty Blue Sky covers me beautifully.
I see the children of Mrs Grass playing around,
they are all wearing green t-shirt, running happily.
I can see Mr Birdy flying towards supermarket,
to get some worms and other groceries for his family.
I can feel the grip of Uncle Gravvy,
and now Windy is all around, breezing gently,
continuously, promising that she will never leave me again.

I can see many things, there are all alive.
They are all around me, they are all live with me.
Who says I’m alone.
No! I am not alone.





A Cancerous Ordeal




It roared through his blood vessels,
leaked into his pores like an unfathomable venom and stealthily infiltrated his cells.
Under the cover of pretence
It speared its dark necrotic body
poisoning, secreting blameless victims,
Death
and an endless hole that would never be filled.


They told him he was going to die. Fact.
Not reputed, need not be justified.
A couple of months one mentioned, with a trained apologetic glance
at the victim of such misfortune. An acknowledgement. Of some sort.
He pondered his unjust luck, oh the irony
wanted his life to flash before his eyes
Just another victim, just another casualty, just another.
Each living breath of his one step closer
to the finite ending of this world
‘Think of it as a blessing’
How? he asked through bleeding tears of disbelief and anger
‘One less day in pain’
‘Keep the faith’ he was told.
So the only outcome was to be death.
No cure. No hope.

He waited
overcome by fathoms of remorse and regret
At worldly wonders he would have found no solitude in
No bucket list he wrote, no final words.
Silence seemed fitting.

She bent down, salty lips where tears had fallen and delivered his kiss of death.





Engineering Inspiration




Take a look around,
Listen to the sound.
How could we explain?
Without knowledge profound.
*
We use the word science,
Adept with connotation.
But lack its appliance,
We’d see no revelation.
*
Forming a solid solution,
Full of intricate beauty,
Requires creative contribution,
An engineer’s duty.






<Untitled>




The physical, the meta-physical and everything in between
Precision, error and tedium
Long winter nights, early summer mornings and the seasons between
This is the ballad of an engineer
A silent ballad that must be sung
An arching bridge that unites the principle with the physical, the physical with the principal and everything in between.
So sing with us, dance with us and live life with us
For this is the ballad of an engineer
A ballad that must be sung
A ballad everyone loves!





The 5th Law of Thermodynamics




Now we all are aware of the traditional three,
Those that define the states that be,
And whilst dispute continues over a potential fourth,
It is the 5th we’re discussing from here, henceforth.

Because unknown to many I have derived another,
Appreciated or not, we will soon discover.
Helmholtz and Maxwell will turn in their grave,
To hear of my postulation that accounts for the brave.

See, this law explains why those like me,
Have embarked upon Chemistry as a choice for degree.
It is what an Arts student fails to acknowledge,
That studying Science requires an act of utmost courage.

To proclaim such a feat is a risky endeavour.
“A 5th law!” she cries with outstanding fervour.
Entropy, heat and temperature aside,
Many a Scientician to this law, do abide:

In recognition and acceptance of prior laws,
Provides one with the power of developing more.
For generations pass through and acquire this wisdom,
Who’s to say one won’t become the next Boltzmann?

The physical sciences teach those that choose,
The fundamentals of our world- facts not views,
And with that knowledge this 5th law exclaims,
That the future is ours: our discoveries, our names.

And so it appears that I have finally shared,
A secret of mine, once previously too scared.
Lovers of English and the Arts please do not fear,
With thanks to you I’ve written a poem right here.

Q.E.D.





Polymorphism




Diamond and graphite what's diverse?
The heart is not.

And glimpse we can,
A better world.

Solid and transparent,
Just as a prism.

Scattering us in different colours,
Whispering, thou are part of the same light.

Now Icarus could fly,
Heading to the Sun,
'Cause its warmth is our might.

It's up to you, up to us.






<Untitled>




From a far away town came a humanities man,
He did poetry, read books - the whole field he did span.
He had always been sure that the arts were the best,
But one day he decided to put that to the test.

So he made it official, put an ad in The Times,
It read, "I invite all you scientists to dinner at mine,
And all I ask from you is a gift in return,
That shows me why science is all we should learn."

They came in their swarms, to prove the appeal,
But when they sat at the table there was no sign of the meal.
"Before we eat," said the host, "we shall see what you bring."
There was a murmur of agreement as they began presenting:

"The Periodic Table, I bring," said the Chemist so sure,
"It is everything in the world - all that is pure.
From the air that we breathe, to the stars in the sky,
Nobody here has such a gift as I."

"You are wrong!" came this from an engineer,
"For you've all used my gifts for many a year,
I offer the car, the shuttle, the plane and the train,
Only such things come from an engineers brain."

Another man stood and he said with a zing,
"Without physics I fear you'd have nothing to bring,
I can offer you only what keeps us on earth,
Gravity, my friends, has been here since it's birth."

The volume turned up in this heated debate,
They were effing and blinding - someone threw a plate!
The host sat perplexed at his guests so rude,
He called on a waiter to delay the food.

Then from near the back there came such a sound,
It rose above all, and so all turned around.
The mathematician had stood, they asked, "What did you bring?"
He said, "I brought e to the 'i' pi, plus one - nothing!"





Life at present




I rather see the world in colour than see it in black and white,
These people so wrong, but fooled to think that they see it right,
Not even if shown the light will the blind man see,
So not even in the light will the accused man be,
Innocent, not guilty or may be even pardoned,
The sheep follow these wolves that are covered up in cotton,
Stripped from their own wool, to be misled and misguided,
You can’t force feed them, but wouldn’t dare join them,
All this confusion, dreams are but an illusion,
So why choose to live it if we never really feel it?
Question in my head, searching for an answer,
But every time I find one its feeling like a cancer,
Killing me slowly, softly, with no chemo,
Hope this story is like the movie and I end up finding Nemo,
If not, I will pursue the same road that was paved by my brothers,
Hoping for a different destination, because I’ve seen what’s in this nation,
Not only is the weather but the hearts are also cold,
How do I know this you may ask? How do I not I would’ve told,
Listened with my eyes because nowadays words never matter,
On a different day I explore the science in matter,
Love physics love math, but can’t help but read life,
Because in a world that’s hard, every man bares his own strife.





Human Rights and Human Lefts




The human kind got so many members
that it decided to split in two parties:
the human rights and the human lefts.
Surprisingly enough, both parties agreed
that among all values in life,
money was of utmost importance.
So they decided to sell themselves for money
and sought buyers.

The first potential buyers
saw the opportunity of wealth growth
and instantly arrived. They were the rich,
few in number yet greedy and powerful.
They made an offer for the human rights,
which human kind couldn’t resist.
But they were so focused in becoming even richer,
that they didn’t hesitate to abuse the human rights.

Then came the middle class members.
They were many and had the necessary power
to obtain the human rights. Also,
they were open minded enough to be able to see
the good in helping the human kind,
yet they chose to merely pursue a carefree life.
They silently tolerated the abuse of the human rights
and completely ignored the human lefts.

Finally the poor arrived.
Even though they were the majority,
they were very weak.
They were so focused in staying alive,
that it didn’t even cross their minds to be united
and stand up for the human rights.
Thus, they compromised with the
human left-overs...





A GREAT DECAY




For all the beautiful complexity we find in the vastness of the universe, none of it is destined to last.
The peculiar governing forces of our realm of order are bent on reducing everything to dust.
But this dust will merely be the final state of a great decay that will have encompassed all that has ever been beautiful.
This dust was once a star, a flower and a human being but it remembers nothing of its former glory.

The dust has seen the birth of everything that would ever exist.
In its youth, it was very much like its older self; pure, bright particles of great potential.
Until it crafted itself into something more; the first brushstrokes of the painting of our universe.

It once lived the life of a star.
In its might, it spread the notion of life throughout the cosmos.
Such authority would come at a price.
Eventually it would sacrifice all its power in aid of the great decay.
But the death of the first stars was only the beginning.
The stardust became the foundations upon which life, order and civilisation were built.

But this too would have to end.
Order would return to disorder.
Life would become isolated in the universe and perish, alone in the dark.
Then only the stardust would remain.
All would be equal in obscurity until even the stardust’s glow would fade.

Nothing in an infinite void.





The Carbon Narnia




Kept alive for hundreds of millions years in the homeland,
but been suppressed for decades.
The Carbon Narnia calling for her new monarch to save the stagnant world.
Warriors from afar sounded the Clarion

The coast of the Socrates blows a great tide.
The sky over Copenhagen is also surging,
Quantum mechanics of black clouds arrives again.
Original theory; Siege appears destroyed


Brave Knights are thirsting to overcome all obstacles, followed by crowds of allegiant soldiers.
The sunlight glitters on armor,
and the Clarion voice cracks open the sky.
The desperate fights fill the soil blood rich and gaudy like purple.

At last, the awakened lion roaring to the sky,
This stagnant world gets a new life by the sudden emergence of graphene,
led by the science of Manchester University,
where the glory, always shining.





The Architect




They make measurements, through a compass of long irresolution,
A square set and solid.
Time breeds from the seeds of what men sow,
And roots fat and ravenous rise with impetus.
Yet method mirrors a fruitful ambition,

A harboured want in a crystal sphere, unleashed
By the prerogative of passion. The whips scar
And mould these roots of belonging;

It has become unstoppable.

The chord cut, the roots risen to rise,
Now solar bound in sacred heights.
The piercing silence

Herald of mammon, the distance lost in haste recedes.
Nothing is absolute
You have become the timeless precursor,
The Infinite constant, everything is known, your memory;
Mighty and genetic, a foundationless fool.





The Geologist Predicament




An adventure if you must
Pursuit of blandness
To seek a treasure upon treasures
The glory for all
Serenity is restored
With its falter barely noticed
A thousand fall by affiliation
The product of such an exploration
I am. Yes I am instinctive for such rape
The blood of earth in which we take
A blood that many drink with glee
The bedlam pours to no degree
Or does it? Will it?





The Experiment




Weigh out your powder in a clean weighing boat
Remember the mass and then make a note
Transfer quantitatively to a round bottomed flask
Be sure not to spill any – it’s an intricate task

Throw in a stirrer bar and then firmly clamp
Place under nitrogen if you don’t want it damp
Pour out some solvent and add this in too
Leave to dissolve while you go for a brew

If it’s not all dissolved you should then heat it gently
But don’t let it boil – watch it intently
A mantle will do but an oil bath’s best
But don’t plug it in without a PAT test

Leave your mixture to stir a little bit more
While you get a condenser out of the drawer
Turn the heat down but only a fraction
To add the next chemical and start a reaction

Set up a reflux and make it secure
You must ask for help if you’re feeling unsure
Heat up to boiling and watch while it’s warming
You might even see some product start forming

Leave a few hours or leave overnight
After you’ve done your safety checks right
Allow it to cool and then vac it dry
Don’t let it bump if the vacuum’s on high

Weigh your crude product, keep a sample to test
The next thing to do is recrystallise the rest
Dissolve in a solvent but not in a lot
Heat up a little, then filter it hot

Cool it once more and leave it to stand
If no crystals appear then give it a hand
Add antisolvent but it needs to be miscible
Keep adding until the product is visible

Leave it a while and stand it aside
The crystals should then be filtered and dried
Your product should now be lovely and pure
So label it up ready to store

Analysis next – elemental, mass spec
NMR, UV-vis – all very high tech
You must check your product’s what you want it to be
And then you can say you’ve done chemistry!





To be a Physicist




To question is to be a Physicist,
of any sort, of any level; a yearning for
understanding to quench a knowledge thirst,
the foundation of all Science, old and new.

To ponder is to be a Physicist,
daydreams of a universe, known in all complexity,
simplicity and wonder, to think, live, breath,
to be the world around us.

To analyse is to be a Physicist,
to take a problem and search for answers, difficult or
straight forward, always looking forward:
forward to a goal and break the boundaries.

To calculate is to be a Physicist,
to swim in an ocean of equations,
equations empty without Physics and measure
the Earth, the Moon and the stars.

To see is to be a Physicist,
to gaze upon the cosmos in all its beauty, delicacy,
violence and depth of field, of view,
observe with biological telescopes and computers.

To be a Physicist is to be Physics,
to build a career on passion and drive,
on stimulation
and burning desire to know,
a heart and mind ablaze with flames of understanding.





Problem Solved




Can cause vacant stares and humbug,
The questions and the problems,
Leave us to overcome the long sums.
The problems tease as a thought lingers,
Reminiscint of a time when it all made sense,
What I wouldn't give for a spark, a light in the dark,
Hark back to the doodles, pen betwixt fingers.
Every scratch of ink on page or cough from the Brave,
Amplified as we've accepted the challenge and mustn't look away,
Some look drained, others engaged only enthusing myself to do the same.

"Think of the greats!"
Those from coefficients and constants and statements,
Hypotheses and laws and theories and equations.
Well I guess it's pretty cool to have your name amongst the pages,
But even history sometimes glosses over these stages.
Yes it is a matter of fact, yes that is blatant;
That success does not bode well with complacence,
So gameface on, "Come on!" Focus and act agent.
Cast my rod back then fling it in to the ocean,
Nor sink, nor swim, rather; just floating,
Hoping for a bite, some insightful notion.
...and as I rest the rod tensed, by luck, or by potion,
Scrambling to reel in the catch "of course!".



…O' Gods of Engineering granting me remorse,
Point source to Force all now fully endorsed,
Such trust in my thoughts, really does seem strange,
It is if at once all of it suddenly seem changed,
As if everything had just you know, clicked in to place,
Like I was held up high through flowered streets famed-
Spring in the air, a jubilant parade!
Where at the end of the path a satin cushion lay,
With a scientific Casio placed in a gold case.





Be more creative




“I’m afraid you’re denied.” The tall man concluded
“If you think you deserve this you must be deluded.”
The case was closed lightly, with barely a sound,
But to me, the box seemed an ill burial ground.
“But it ticks all the boxes it’s just what you want,
From the front to the back all the way to the font!”
But the tall man leant forward and narrowed his gaze,
“Be. More. Creative.”
Be more creative? But I work in a lab!
A need for such nonsense I never have had!
I told him his as much and you know what I heard?
“Do you hear yourself speaking? You sound quite absurd!
You think much too linear, be more convoluted
That’s why Bragg, Bohr and Blackett appear so well suited.
Be more inspired and inspiration will follow,
Or my next theory will be How a head can be hollow.”





What a Strange Place, Indeed.




I am a giant in this shallow world,
A blot of red on a colorless painting,
A thought amongst a mindless herd,
A cure in a land that's tainting.

I am music in a world of deaf ears,
A free mind in a world of priests,
Poetry in a world of illiterates,
A human in a world of beasts.

I am a Knight on a checkerboard,
A fish in the sky,
A slave in a palace,
A king in a sty.

I am a page on a word,
A map on a place,
A sky in the cloud,
A man on a face.

I push as they pull.
I bob as they weave.
I speak as they're silent.
I doubt, they believe.

I am restless and fervid,
Clever and learned,
As bright as the stars,
As hot as the surface.

I do not fit in here,
I am a dangerous thing,
In a literal world,
I am a symbol for dreams.

In a crumbling world,
I am the promising youth.
I reject the status quo,
And embrace the truth!

.




.




.

This place is so full of wonders and magic,
But the people are so full of anger, it's tragic.
What is it precisely that drives men mad?
Power and pride, is it as simple as that?

Oh, how they act with such blindness and greed,
All I can say is what a strange place, indeed.
I, however, will never adhere!
I give you this world, as I do not fit in here.






<Untitled>




Finding humanity in science? For an easy answer;
See Geim's floating frogs[1] or co-author hamster[2]
And whilst an amusing aside it does ignore
Many greater tales of something more

Step into CERN you're sure to see
A veritably intellectual menagerie
Scientists and engineers from most every nation[3]
And what's more human than such collaboration?

Science is perhaps unique in how it can unite
The world's greatest minds to delight
In the many projects too numerous to list
And indeed in fields alien to this physicist

If you're one searching for scientific creativity
Try wrapping your head round relativity
I.e. the faster you travel the slower you'll find
External events to occur, now to muddle your mind

Imagine we're each strapped to separate rockets and spy
The other approaching and thus do I
Note your watch ticks more slowly than that
Of the one with which I'm sat

But from your rocket you seem to see
It is my watch that's running slowly!
If this paradox unsettles, don't fear
I'm in the same boat (least till third year)

To precis I feel the point would be
All fields have inherent humanity
It's kinda what we do as a people
But science has more to it.

If ever you see a sunset and hear that its beauty is lost to science's prying eye.
Remind 'em the real beauty doesn't come till the other billion suns fill the sky.

And maybe Andromeda if it's dark and you're in the Northern hemisphere[4]

[1] "Of Flying Frogs and Levitrons" by M.V. Berry and A.K. Geim, European Journal of Physics, v. 18, 1997, p. 307-13.
[2] Geim, A. K.; H.A.M.S. ter Tisha. (January 2001). "Detection of earth rotation with a diamagnetically levitating gyroscope".Physica B: Condensed Matter 294–295: 736–739.
[3] http://public.web.cern.ch/public/en/About/Global-en.html
[4] http://www.wikihow.com/Find-the-Andromeda-Galaxy





Beautiful creations




I see in the fall gravity’s sense
For why did Newton
And the Wrights
Not tell men
That upwards we fall?
I see the genius of them who sat and
Thought that men needed to grow
And in knowledge inspire to draw out
Life in the laboratories of experiments and the time
Of experience
We live in the age of work
Not of art but in the era of eclipses meeting
Rays of renaissance
We span periods of galaxical discovery
With earth touching the unknown
And men setting these sights
Known to us
And now I know why the great minds of history
Borrowed from the treasures of philosophical
Encounters
For in Homer I see the beauty of a man with great tales
And in these tales I see the metrical perfection of his words
I am dazzled by the creations of men;
The precisions of Da Vinci’s paints
The flawless measures of Angelo’s sculptures
And in these as I gaze so long at the
Magnificence of the art,
I see the monumental impact of structure
The use of architectural opulence
And the impact of mathematical contention
I see science.





Luna




I do loop-de-loop
over deserted seaside town,
echo cold crescent glow
over ghostly carousel.

Tidal bulge tows my rocky heart,
flings me high, too high-
I’m thrown overboard, castaway,
I gasp for air, hurry goodbye.

Energy shifts from Earth to Moon,
A child screams lost balloon.



I float adrift through ancient mist;
faint and frail, it floods the abyss.
No craggy cove for hide n’ seek,
I sink further into the deep.


Then comes the invisible grasp
of Earths guiding hand.
Pulling me round on an even keel,
she gives me leeway. My orbit expands.

In ages past
I’ll be washed ashore,
midst a towering city of suns.
Home at last,
I’ll wander no more.





Letter from England




Outside the window,
Beautiful clouds slowly float on the wind,
Reflected in the lake,
Fashion a landscape.
Beside the desk,
Meaningful words jump on the screen,
Written in my heart,
Flow endless thoughts of,
Your sweet face.
Staring into the starry sky,
Waiting for your letter,
In the long night,
You, far from here,
Sound asleep.
My deep love,
I still remember the first time I saw you,
Raven-black hair
Liquid Eyes,
Smiling with innocence and purity.
The sky in England,
I long to share the same snow,
Walking with you in the magical night,
Singing together,
My love!





I Shall Rise




Dear fate, you rise from gathering darkness
When a thousand visions of mine begin to unfold
And with your superfluous eloquence of ruthlessness
You slay me and make me fall.
But I shall be born again and I shall rise.

Like million dazzling suns and shimmering moons,
When my hopes gain its momentum,
You crawl into my mind and instil irrefragable doubts.
You make my feet numb and immovable,
But I shall move and move immovable mountains.

Sometimes you appear in the subtlest forms
With an unfathomable clairvoyant flamboyance
And create turbulence in my tumultuous mind.
You push me down to the core of anguishes,
But I shall rise again and I shall fight.

You hallucinate me with illusions of darkness
And in delusions, you burn me alive.
You make my quivering lips murmur its secret prayers
And then you let my prayers go unanswered.
But I shall rise again and I shall be invincible nonetheless.






<Untitled>




Dear my darling love I met some more fools today,
They said they hate you,
They want to forget you,
They seem to fear you,
I was at a loss for words to say,

I thought of all your truths and proofs,
Your rings and groups,
And saw nothing worthy of hate,

I thought of all your curves and lines,
Your dimensions and signs,
And felt nothing I would want to forget,

I thought of your functions,
Your contradictions and inductions,
And knew nothing worthy of fear,

They will never see,
The abstract beauty I get to behold,
They will never feel,
The perfect form that I get to embrace,
They will never know,
Of the sleepless nights that I've spent plunging into your depths,

Oh how I pity them,
Not to have a love,
So beautifully simple,
So infinitely complex,
But I will have you always,
In my heart and in my mind,
I will love you forever,
My dear darling Maths.





The Masters of Discovery




Scientists and Engineers,
Are the best among their peers.
Bridges, roads and sights you see,
Are an Engineer’s speciality.

Scientists, the fundamentalists,
trying to ease our deadly disease.
Cancer, AIDS and the common cold,
The cures to which will soon unfold.

First the wheel, then the light,
The shape of Earth discovered right.
Race to Space, nanotechnology,
Nothing’s beyond possibility.

Watson, Crick and DNA;
Diagnose disease within a day.
Einstein, Planck and Bernoulli,
Contributed much to society.

Einstein to mention one of three,
Who’s art was that of simplicity.
He who made all from three,
As he remembered to square the ‘c’.

Curious and inquisitive are such folk,
Many thoughts and dreams provoked.
These brave minds astonish me,
With creative, new discovery.

Scientists and Engineers, my peers,
Continue to amaze for many years.






<Untitled>




If I could tell you all the secrets of my heart,
With faith that I speak in the tongue of love
Would you keep me from becoming an outcast,
If I told you that my words were send from above?
A strange silence in the rain that succumbs,
Yields a message that I fail to put in words
And with hope, a revelation it becomes,
As if created from the notes sung by birds.

I wonder if it is the exit from this latent state
Or is it betrayal to our God-given form,
For I imagined the truth to be of blatant weight;
Allowing our spirit to soar with the storm-
But, alas, all I see are contradictions in the design;
"Be yourself" is what they innocuously preach,
Yet we can never remain the same as change is benign
Over time, with experience, that motto, we breach.

The way withering is destined for a bloom,
As it survives a time and dies another season
Our innocence is short-lived for a fateful doom
On impending thoughts, action and reason.
Could there be a prayer that does the undone
Or wishes away the unwanted, I sadly cannot guarantee;
For what I have become, and what I have done,
My avatar from before is no longer my identical copy.

I do wonder whether if the difference is but the same,
But I cannot live in negligence, the flowers will always decay
With the almost never-ending applause of the rain
There is a sad truth within this confined space of disarray.
In between the chaos, I hope to save the song in my heart
And entrust you with the words and its melody,
So when I wither and I forget, you take me back to the start
And sing that message and those words back to me.





Tonight




Though dark descended hours ago,
a multitude of tasks remain:
assignments, dishes, washing clothes
and other such necessities.

Fatigued, I eagerly collapse,
reciprocate my quilt's embrace
and scorn responsibilities.

An engine's dulcet tones resound
then fade, to leave a closer sound -
the tick of passing time for once
does not elude to zero hours.
And nearer still the in and out
of lazy breath as I regard
the privelege sensation holds.

In any other circumstance
a mouth not clean is odious.
Tonight the taste, a bodily
phenomenon,is worth
some special admiration.
My teeth remain a monument
to pasta eaten hours ago.

Enticed to open disused eyes
I fight temptation, briefly. Look
the blinds cast spines of light around -
the spines of dancing senses.






<Untitled>




A beauty spot has shown its single way,
directly throwing light on some projects,
by which I mean, for instance, like a day
routinely onto loads of tasks it connects.
Yet what we view as grace really reflects
is lying in the verity of firm and good commerce.
Supplying, producing and selling, which it collects,
compile a mighty space where fortune occurs.





Natural disasters and Engineers




Let me help you!
I know of your sorrows towards Earthquakes,
I know of your sadness and of yours lost,
I know of yours fears.

Let me help you!
I know that you like look the sea and mountains,
The sky and the waves in the horizon,
I know that you are part of the nature.

Let me help you!
I know that you want a house,
I know of engineering,
I know how make a house,
Resistant and sustainable.

Let me help you!
I will build you a house,
Near to sea or mountains,
On a hill.

Let me help you!
Let me change the materials,
Let me carry to place safe,
Far of geological faults.






<Untitled>




I look up to the sky and think why am I here?
What's beyond the atmosphere?
Who made the world and people?
Do I listen to Georges Lemaitre or the words of Ezekiel?
Obliviously, I design myself around my surroundings,
Like I've been put together by Mendeleev's foundings,
So I'm similar to other elements in my group,
But gravity pulls me back to earth from a branch like a fruit.





The Scientist Lament




Sunshine rains upon the blissful masses
I thirst dreaming of that sweet nectar
Each drop fall on my parched lips tastes of heaven
Click!
I’m pulled from my wonderland
I stare at my cup of light from the direct voltage tap
Oh how I lament in my dungeon not knowing whether sun or moon is dancing
Click! Beep!
Sounds continue the tormenting onslaught
As if unsatisfied by my lament
Click! Beep! Drip!
Suddenly I hear, suddenly I see, suddenly I realised
These are not sounds of torment, not chains of burden, but the symphony of truth
My electrodes click into gear
Sparking each other, electrifying the atmosphere, and charging my soul with the thrill of discovery
My monitor beeps
Watching human curiosity dance across its screen, jumping up and down, and racing left to right
Drips of my direct voltage tap spout a shower of rainbows
Quenches my thirst, it cures my itch, and feeds my hunger
As the beauty erupts around me, a smile appears and I lament





Heroes of the Skies





Before embarking to a wonderful journey of your life…
Let your precious mind wondering who the savours of airframe integrity are…
The battle they are fighting every day to ensure safe travel and disperse into the sky with hope…
The liveable journey makes us even more enjoyable when reaching humanity from all walks of life and soaring to the sky of dream…
Who are they?
They are composites, titanium and modern aluminium alloys…
They are the ones who realizing your dream as an explorer of the world…
They are the ones who inspiring humankind into the next level of innovation…
With their unique constituents, they complement each other and work as a team…
They make us believe that the sky is limitless…





When First I Heard Her Cry




The migratory birds, they flew,
The polyphagic rat withdrew,
The sky took on a darker hue,
When first I heard her cry.

Beyond the childish games of chance,
Beyond the poet's fluid dance,
A silken nightmare broke my trance,
When first I heard her cry.

And though my heart was far from pure,
My twisted fingers far from sure,
I grasped the precious fruit she bore,
When first I heard her cry.





The End of Innovation




Exam, test, quiz, assessment,
I was told each one 'an investment';
A chance to show the world my ability,
To tackle the problems using my utility.
So why are we tested on just our memory?
Surely this puts our futures in jeopardy?
If regurgitating answers is to be expected,
Innovation will cease and the world disconnected.





Climate Change




Sea level is rising, but only if you know
Ice sheets are melting
Ah! There will be no more snow

Mean global temperature is indeed shooting quite high
When temperatures rise above 2 degrees,
Will there be no mercy from the sky?

Iceland or Africa, California or Costa Rica,
We are all in the same boat now
We need to do something, but could you tell me how?

Solar, wind, wave and nuclear is our only hope
They say we must think quickly
And bury the sack of ‘black diamond’, tied with a mighty rope

Stop all the rigs rigging in the desert sand
Don’t fight over oil
Lest the world you may spoil

Make it all electric
They say it’s so pathetic
Alas, what have we done so far?

But we must correct it now
Copenhagen and Kyoto have become stories of the past
Will COP 21 at Paris do something at last?

We need to save the planet
But only if we care
We need to address this issue, but only if we dare





Tear of the engineer





Call me Engineer.
Man with knowledge to share.
See my project there.
A rocket-propelled chair.
It sends you to the moon.
Where you have a beer.
Asking why I tear?
My gear bit my ear...





Physikos Lex





In a world so scarce of understanding
Our imagination is suspending

We venture to craft hyperbolas
Amid subterranean laws of universal cupolas

Of relativistic phonomenas
That multitude our mind like hyenas

Using the calculus of mathematical genius
We can portray anything from Venus

To the incessant foundries of dimensions
To rest our struggled intentions

The era of unearthing is tense
Awakening the vortex of intelligence

The universum enhanced brain
Pursuits the hooded moth in lane

A vector reveals a centum of guise
To take reality from the sanctum of flies.





Different paths




We walk but different paths,
It is the quest for insight.

We have all been seeking：
For Maturity, purity,
Elixir of immortality.
But they were called Alchemists,
While we are called Chemists.

We all have our destiny determined：
Theirs are written on the handbook of the god himself,
Ours are written on the chromosomes within our cells.

To exist is to be perceived：
So the moon is not in the sky,
Since no one is looking.
And the cat could be both dead and alive,
As no one will be wondering.

Walk by the spirit, forces of nature,
Desires of the flesh, particles of matter.
I suppose we all thought the same,
One way or another.

We walk different paths,
It is the quest for insight.





One Type of Nerd





Don’t smile, don’t say hi
Never look me in the eye,
I’m an awkward maths geek
And apparently we do not speak

“The only nerds that do exist,
Are those that are always in the midst
Of equations and science things you see
No writing or philosophy”

But then I ask what do you think
The people are whose words they ink
And books they read and libraries seek
Are they not different types of geek?

From writing desks to laboratories
Encompassing every subject category
T o be a nerd just means you care
About something, so be aware

That nerds and geeks are all around
And across the board they can be found
So next time you see a science book
And judge it from just one quick look

Remember that from Brahe to Shakespeare
And Sinatra too
Everyone can be a nerd
Maybe even you.





They said I was too small




My birth began at the heart of a dying star,
Born along many many others, we all took different paths.
Many alike and few very different we travelled, travelled to where?
Well, who cares?

My story began when I became part of what is known as life.
Billions of years pass by and I still don't know what I am.
Suddenly, I form part of a brain in a very smart creature in a very strange world
it is in this inquisitive brain in this peculiar world I figured out what I am.
I have decided to call myself an Atom.

This is where my legend began.
In a mere snapshot of time the species I formed part of took to the skies.

From the Great Pyramids of Giza to the Great Wall of China;
from the Hoover Dam of USA to the Steam Engine of the UK
I have written poetry that will give goosebumps and philosophy that will make you wonder
Architecture that will make your heart pause and art that makes you ponder
Capable of love and sentience... this sets me asunder.

;)





Search the God





I have searched the god
since I was born
when I saw the miracle,
the light above the head and the fire from the wood.
Worshiped to the Polaris, sacrifice on the altar,
wished I could be with you
after the doom.

I have searched the god
since I learnt to learn
when I wrote down the fist zero
and the equation of electron.
Disrupted the hydrogen bonds
to copy the gene
and found you are not here.

I have searched the god
since I walked out my home
when I hitchhiked Noah's ark
knocked on every door within my reach.
Increased my life to get more time, refit the ark to save more time,
assembled DNA to feel your feeling,
but cannot see your trace.

I have stopped searching the god
since I knocked one door
when I saw
a creature with holy light
knelt to me
and called me God.





The Old Blue Bike




Don't you remember,
in the middle of September,
when the clouds seemed to die,
and the sun left the sky?

We found the light and the speed,
on the blue bike in the breeze,
We found happiness and joy,
in the blue ancient toy.

In the storms and the wind we felt no pain,
the longest rides we did under rain,
It slept in the garden watching the night,
Awaiting the day, awating to fight.

Silent years ran, steel was corroded,
Electrons devoured, cations removed.
From the bikes to the trains,
no real peace is felt by metallic domains.
Electrochemical processes are marvelous,
Corrosion of metals is fast and ravenous,
Iron swords and armors did in the kingdom,
golden rings and crowns did it seldom.
New scratches are formed and reigns the rust,
Can you see how corrosion has eaten the past?

I bought the paint, I chose the blue,
I miss our rides in the peaceful avenue.
Let's remove together the rusted skin,
let's make our bike what it's really been.





Hertz, Hooke Higgs, Hubble




Carl Sagan, Patrick Moore,
William Herschel, Niels Bohr.
Ernest Rutherford, Max Planck,
Richard Feynman, Paul Dirac.
Isaac Newton, Robert Boyle,
Stephen Hawking and Fred Hoyle.
Geiger, Müller, Johannes Kepler,
James Joule, Nikola Tesla.
Hertz, Hooke, Higgs, Hubble,
James Clerk-Maxwell, Bernard Lovell.
Christian Doppler, Georg Ohm,
James Watt and Roger Penrose.
Ampere, Coulomb, Becquerel,
Alexander Graham-Bell.
Faraday and Albert Einstein,
Look! There’s Brian Cox on prime-time.
Bill Nye- the Science Guy,
Novoselov and Andre Geim.
Schrödinger, Enrico Fermi,
Fritz Zwicky, Karl Jansky.
Heisenberg, Wolfgang Pauli,
Galileo Galilei.

The Physicists whose names prevail,
All just happen to be male.
They write the books, they’re on our screens,
But the women: nowhere to be seen.
Perhaps it’s ‘cause Physics is hard and tough,
And, naturally, that makes it “man stuff.”
Women make the odd appearance,
So Science is sexy or more appealing
to the boys who hope to be, one day,
Like Brian Cox or Brian May.
But what for me? Where’s my dream?
Hardly heard, seldom seen.
Finding women to rhyme was tricky to do,
Mainly because there are just so few!
Jocelyn Bell, Monica Grady,
Lise Meitner, Marie Curie.
Ada Lovelance, Vera Rubin,
Caroline Herschel, Rosalind Franklin.
I promise you, we do exist,
I just wish there were a longer list!
I want women in classrooms and women in labs.
On every Brownie Guide’s sash, the astronomy badge.
‘Cause, come on, space is cool no matter your gender!
Big bang, Milky Way, right through to the end of
the Earth or the birth of the brightest new star.
The Universe is waiting...
Whoever you are.





Confession of a Mathematician





I’m often asked what it is I do,
“I study maths,” I plead guilty to.

Their reaction is unsurprising,
A look of bewilderment arising,
This whole encounter unappetising,
And with their loss for words subsiding…

“Why?” They ask with a confused expression,
“I just like maths,” comes my darkest confession.





My Cage





Depression is a faraday cage,
your skin the metal,
your thoughts the charge.
The negative is forced outwards,
looking at it from outside this is all you observe.
People are afraid to come near,
lest they be caught by the Sparks,
and end up in a cage of their own.
On the inside however,
there is no charge.
There is nothing, numbness.
Soon you'll come to realise,
the cage is what protects you.

So in this sense,
you become a hollow conductor;
Things pass through you,
but can't affect what's inside.





The flame





The flame
that is so craved by the numbed body of the needy,
does warm the hand of one so shallow and greedy;
frozen by issues troubling his lonesome mind and soul
as perpetual perceptions of the masses leave him
forever in the cold;

The wind
that sets the sails of the man in the suit,
does crash and destroy the dwelling of a man in pursuit
of meagre scraps with which to feed his family,
while the suited man’s business
performs satisfactorily;

The drop
that runs in rivulets down the back of one so beguiled
fails to reach the parched tongue of a dying child
as the sailing people search for the meaning of life
in a river of dreams
having already found land made barren by streams;

The light
that guides the honest wayfarer
does guide the crook, the watchman and the bearer
of pain so unimaginable it leaves a permanent mark,
which fails to heal in the comfort of the dark





Through the eyes of a rational thinker




I'm writing down words,
Because you ased how I feel,
But just to say words,
Well that wouldn'y feel real.

A few words on paper,
Or even out loud,
They're not a feeling,
They'd not make me proud.

I know it's just chemicals,
Pumping through my blood,
But when you touch my lips,
My mind turns to mud.

I can try to be rational,
But what's that really worth?
Even logic seems unlogical,
With you on my earth.

I try and calculate the outcome,
Weigh up cons and pros,
But when you make me smile,
All my common sense goes.

When you give me that look,
Like I'm the only one there,
My knees go weak,
It doesn't feel fair!

Your conversation's intellectual,
Next to you I feel dumb,
But you make me feel interesting,
Even when my mind's numb.

I'm a rational person,
Very sensible too,
But I feel I can do anything,
So long as I'm with you.





A little cloud is passing by





Green leaf of the mid July,
A little cloud is passing by.

Can’t tell if it’s snow or rain,
Or it’s tears cried in vain.

When flowers bloom in the trees,
Or when wind will bend their knees.

When a fiddle madly sings,
As fingers bleed along its strings.

Men and dreams will rise and die,
Clouds will run around the sky.

Be the sin you can’t forget
How you loved someone and left.





Teaching





You can see it in her face,
The moment that she understands.
The clouds in her eyes melt away,
And she straightens where she stands
Those hands that haltingly mimicked mine,
Growing strong, growing sure.
That which they shape is held out with a pride
So innocent and so pure.

Watch her mouth
Teeth biting lip,
Watch her eyes
The brows dip.
One day she will do this one handed,
While chatting to a mate.
But today it takes all she has
So cherish this, and wait.

To see her learn,
And to see her grow.
To hear her question
A greater wonder, I’ll never know.
Knowledge sitting in your head
Can bring you pride.
But giving it to her,
Will have joy flowing through your whole inside.





https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rKzZG1mvv_o





The embittered face of a man who weeps,
Writing over some lost love,
And in his eyes his spirit sleeps,
While in his chest his heart beats on.
And in the night as darkness reigns,
A boy who cries, a boy who drinks,
Staring down as the bottle sinks,
Echoing in his head, a name.
Brought forward on the sighing wind,
A memory of two lives entwined,
A fleeting glance that makes a ghost
Remember his lost spirit’s host.





Narcissists on Narcotics





In this moment i am the king
and I'll make it last forever
I don't care what morning will bring
This is now, the future is never

Chemicals to stop the world turning
Give me more and let me be
Faces around me, eyes wide and gurning
They all love me, and I love me

Emptying accounts on powders and pills
Tomorrow will never come
Fleeting Happiness, prepackaged thrills
All this for a bit of fun





Weekly Entertainment





We only appear in the news
We like to amuse
Those that are not around
By killing and bombing
With torture and threats
How some people do rejoice
In thousands of deaths

Of course you condemn us
Your abhorrence will linger
But dear, this remains entertainment
When you refuse to lift a finger





Flower




I am a humble flower,
Delicate and beautiful,
Just as long as you forget
That I am a plant genital.

Imagine for one second
An alternate universe,
Where plants roam around freely,
With humans as the inverse.

When a tulip dies,
One they'd truly miss,
Would they all go up to its grave
And lay a severed penis?





Knowledge





We grew
From a place
With no time
With no life
From a point of no size
To an infinite world
We grow

We grew
With the first atom
With the first molecule
With a chain of reactions
From Cells
To Humans
We grow


We grew our minds
By thinking
By testing
By making
From fire
To electricity
We grow.

Our Knowledge is our greatest tool
It heals the sick
It feeds the hungry
It recovers us from disaster
It can’t be destroyed
And yet it still grows

But what is great
About knowledge
Which can destroy itself?





Musings of a chemist, advocate of aestheticism





University insists hedonism, the relentless pursuit of ones own satisfaction.
We like to think of ourselves as developed versions of our Victorian ancestors, yet this century is no more removed from the grandeur, the perverse... the beautiful,
“Then wear the gold hat, if that will move her;
If you can bounce high, bounce for her too,
Till she cry “Lover, gold-hatted, high-bouncing lover,
I must have you!”
You hear softly in your head; you hope that your degree will chill the hot whips of panic while you fail to decide your future, you fail to decide your persona, you fail to be content with ones self.
The pleasant distraction a degree provides is a temporary solace from the hard malice of the real word.





A magical house, indeed





That night I stayed in a magical house.
The emotion that squiggled through me as I stepped in, I cannot douse.
Covered in tapestry, so intricate, so warm;
To be matched by the fur and not the coldness on Her Majesty's feline form.

I am a PhD student of science,
With Physics in particular, I have formed an alliance.
The cat doesn't care, I suspect.
Her nonchalance having a satirical lack of respect.

Well anyway. I quivered and danced at the trinkets and artifacts;
Bells, beads , wood carvings and paintings of bats!
The place was high in an enchanting womanly spirit;
To be matched, this time, by Karen who had downed a bottle of it.

An intellectually romanticized art,
Such as experimental Physics, I could not offer for my brain and my heart.
She wasn’t impressed, 'I would use my heart on a man
And my brain to weave a sensible, practical life plan'

Anyway. Madness, I assure you, in such magnificent homes,
Can only add to the merriment of our hormones.
Karen assured me twelve times before the day came to an end,
That the strange man in the kitchen was just a friend.





The Roads





My Dear,

I Love you more than you can imagine
Though you would leave me soon
Yet you would stay with me forever
We've treaded upon the lonely roads these past years
We've fallen to the evils and goods of these lonely roads

You've treated me good
You've treated me bad
We've laughed together
We've smiled together
We've wailed together
And we've cried together

You've dried my tears
I have dried your tears
You've caused me to sorrow
I've caused you to sorrow

In times of deception
We've shared our realities
The distance setting us apart
Shall also bring us together

I cannot deny that loving you has not cost me much
You cannot deny that loving me has not cost you much
We are paying the price of the prize

A part of me has made you who you are
A part of you has made me who I am

Even if time separates us, something keeps us together
And that is: that part that has brought us together

In our silence
In our solace
In our err

Sleep, Close your eyes, close your minds, and
Dream my dear, because I am already dreaming!





Crescendo Electric





A sinusoidal wave
of flesh and bone
ether riding high
in the ebb and flow
and flow river flow!
inside of me
blow wind blow
on the open sea
scattering gold fire
to the tip of myself
music made motion
a sensual wealth
of touch and taste
as I spring a-new
phoenix from fire
and me into you
a magnified focus
on filtered thoughts
in a chemical correction
of coloured noughts
and ones in code
a connected web
pervasive yet singular
inside my head

you are with me
in one soft hum
crescendo electric
and then
we’re done.





<untitled>





'You fool!' I rebuked, 'that argument's mine!
Your knowledge, ficticious - your downfall, divine!'
I laughed at the screen, for their cover was blown.

But it was a mirror, and I was alone.





The Man I Am





The man I am doesn't stare at screens,
or click on things in which he should believe,
and scroll through people projecting self - esteem,
in an infinite stream of buffering dreams.

The man I am doesn't connect through wire,
or plug directly in to something higher,
or download a character, a place and a mould,
then upload a laugh, or an emotion to hold.

The man I am can't explain how he feels,
to the c drive of a box sitting at his heels,
to a memory not mine, not sacred and blessed,
that can be wiped in an instant, with a factory reset.

The man I am is hard to process,
and the Intel i5 is making me less.
It's stripping me down, to zeros and ones,
And it can't be improved, no matter the funds.

The man I am doesn't vary in strength,
with location and coverage, and crowded tents.
He's fully connected, from brain to brain,
to things not seen on internet domains.

The man I am can't be written in code,
or calculated at several million nodes,
or ran in a loop til solution is obtained.
To function as a function and be shackled by those chains.

The man I am doesn't type what he thinks,
In coherent format with references and links,
But leaves it jumbled in a beautiful mess,
inside the mind where it is pure and caressed.

The man I am isn't the man I am.





Fly





I don’t struggle in the web,
It’ll buy me some time from the spiders.
I should have seen it, I was eaten by spiders before.
But this one isn’t the same,
It isn’t trapping, it isn’t white, not arachnoid.
No, it’s a fly like me that made it.
One whose flesh I’ve seen, but yet to know,
Whose mind I’ve heard, but yet to feel,
They could be all or nothing or something else, it wouldn’t matter.
It’s the resonance, the perfect octaves that make the web shiver.

The other coils its web around me,
It latches to my skin, seeps through the pores,
Rushes with the blood, fills my head,
Lodges in my heart,
And then flies.





The Engineer




What do your eyes see,
When you are done setting us free?
What does your mind tell,
When you cast your final spell?
What does your heart desire,
When you saved us from situations so dire?

O great warrior,
how we stare in awe of your mastery,
as you gaze listlessly at our flattery.
O great savior,
how we only wish to fathom
the emotions you traded for wisdom.

Are you really a saint,
to guide us through our toils,
taking neither gratitude nor spoils?
Are you just a machine,
having knowledge never limited,
with programming ever so tethered?
Are you just human,
having intentions so noble,
hiding cascades of emotion in situations so brutal?

I think I know,
why you know what you know.
I think I know,
why you hide what you hide.
I think I know,
why you do what you do.

Yes, I think I do know,
who you really are,
for I am you now,
and it takes one to know one.

You are also human,
fine tuned to superhuman.
Having mind ever so sound,
with energies never as bound.
In this world guided by emotion,
where ego and jealousy checks motion,
you hide behind a mask of stoicism,
becoming a nameless hero of martyrdom.
To protect what is good,
you offer your own blood.
You are the closest we get to perfection,
the machine of the kindest intention.
You are an Engineer.





S Eye nce





They call it science
some say its confusing, bemusing
no clue clue whats going on
trying to do it

I have no motivation
to learn the equations
requiring some persuasion
eventually I do it

Its all the same
you just play the game
soak up the words
I just do it

All it requires is a breakthrough
but who knew
just an accident , a mutation
could ground the whole nation
then where would we turn

All it takes is one opportunity
and you could be the saviour
of the whole community
giving them immunity
cleaning their bodies
providing some purity

In moments of defiance
we turn to science
to help us live longer
to give us strength
and make us stronger.





We are not just separate leaves.




When we breathe, inhaled that, which everything has exhaled before.
And underneath, trampled has, everything walked on this floor.

In the sky we see, that which can, glow and define the shore.
But on a different degree, a ball of fire, the solar systems' core.

We're on a ball of mud floating in space, providing the resources in store.
We have bodies with the same composition of stars light years away, certainly we're not poor.

When we leave, slowly it withers away, returning back to it's source when it's a corpse.
And now we're in the forgotten land again, before we are born.


This makes me believe, that we are the universe experiencing itself, nothing more.
With love we are made, so spreading it unconditionally is what we're here for.

Yet because of the veils of separation, sharing has become a forced chore.
The same illusion that stirs what is in the absence of love and creates war.

Please, we have what it takes so let's smile, that sudden rush of serenity is the cure.
So let us not be just the separate leaves of the tree, let us understand our seed. It's about time we continue explore.





We are meant to be





We are meant to be

We stood there all alone...
In the dark winter night...
When the sun from the heaven...
Plunged into the night sky...
Lifting the darkness between us, it subtly made me realize...

That we are meant to be...
One soul, one heart forever...

I remember that moment by the sea...
How you whispered into my ear that you love me...
When I first saw you from the corner of my eye...
When we chatted all night under the sky...
With every eternal moment...
I realized I was falling in love…

But why was this fall not scary?
Why instead would it be soothing, loving and comfy?
It was meant to be.... WE are meant to be...

The sting of love can last forever...
Let’s find a way to be together...
For now, you are in the air I breathe...
In my heart that relentlessly throbs...
You are the one I desire in every heartbeat...

Because it was meant to be.... WE are meant to be...





The Scientific Miracle





There was an only one ball in the empty space
And it was so dense and hot
That decided to become a universe,
Something bigger spread out in trillions of spots.

Well, it exploded and is still spreading until today,
There four dimensions have taken birth
In the early universe, when it was so hot
And nothing more than a very energetic plasma.

It started to cool and the main hydrogen gas was formed,
Lots of interactions during billions of years
A new spiral galaxy, lost in the immensity of space,
Surrounded everywhere of trillions of other galaxies.


But here was something special,
Eight planets gravitating around a Sun
And only one, the third, has met the right conditions
To create new intelligent biological life forms, the humans.


A perfect combination of lots of atoms and
Undiscovered structures owing the consciousness,
That has made us to be curious, to learn and to evolve
Until this stage where we are today.





The Old Days





I dreamed last night,
back to the old days.

On the ladders in my high school,
I climbed step by step.
There still be full of sunshine.
There still be candy-floss-like clouds,
floating around the mountain peak.
Across the street a cluster of bungalows
let go the blue blue sky.
Sometimes it could be
a flash of lightning splitting the dark sky,
followed by threatening thunderstorms and torrential rains.

I climbed step by step.
My hands could touch the smooth stairs
and rough handrails.
I saw myself laughing and joking with friends.
I saw boys and girls chatting with each other.
It seemed that
things would never change.

I climbed step by step.
Eventually I arrived at my classroom but,
suddenly I found
new students there taking classes.
Then I wake up.
My old days end.





Revision




A mechanical pencil is the weapon of choice,
as I slave away without rejoice,
The Alan Gilbert Learning Commons,
is the place I choose to implant knowledge,
Maxwell's equations are resplendent to sight,
but the understanding is my plight,
Cups of coffee keep me going,
as my intelligence keeps on growing.

A furtive glance outside reveals,
all to be enjoyed once my grades are sealed,
But now my tired mind grows weary,
as I study Liouville's Theory,
To my luck a girl walks by,
now she's going going gone goodbye,
Alone again I sit and ponder,
that truly this subject is a wonder.

The end of exams seems so far,
when determining in quantum - ket or bra?
As we asymptote to the end,
a sudden expansion ruins the trend,
All thought is applied: the theory complex,
and suddenly my mind begins to vex,
The solution seems distant - far in the future,
as I begin to understand nuclear,
The road ahead is fraught with uncertainty,
that's for sure with Bose and Fermi.

I lie in bed with equations swirling,
trying to sleep is a real burden,
Up at 9 and back at 12,
further into calculus I dare to delve,
Pythagoras, Legendre, the Greeks to the Maians,
all we do is stand on the shoulders of giants,
As I look out to space and through the void,
I give up with work and play some Pink Floyd.





A Programmer's Tale





(Oh mighty compiler,
I hope I don't fail you again
I have chosen good names for my vars
and have tried all but a prayer!)

In code we trust to work correctly
and dampen the load on our lives,
from the simple Ms. Pac-Man
to GUIs which are hardware's disguise.

Although we've come far and beyond
what we'd ever hoped to achieve,
this doesn't mean we will not
try reinventing the wheel.

The true story of art, engineering and science
has only but just begun,
and legend tells us that they
used to not get along.

Implied was that nature and tech
were not part of a whole.
Assumed was that bonded together
they could not coexist in a world.

And though they might seem exclusive
truly they are all alike -
for the creative aspects of science
have pushed innovations
impossibly far.

Creator - creation, influencing each other,
the circle continues, with no end in sight.
The treasures of science that we hold inside
are infinitely vast and reflect one another.

But behind the desk there lies someone,
(and his name
seems to be untold)
selflessly designing the future,
to bring a tomorrow where today couldn't hold.

And passion fuels his burning soul
it guides him to the greater good,
as every class has got it's methods,
the Computer Geek has tech at heart.





From then 'til now




Ideas from Brunel to Elon Musk today
From bridges to hyperloops, the landscape has changed.
Bricks & mortar businesses to cloud storage devices
Serving the needs of the people, what effects are enticed?

A housing bubble collapse, credit-default swaps we don't understand
Bankers bonused on loss-making, for hundreds of grand.
A production decline in the west, steel-makers out of pocket
Outsourcing holds the locket.

It's easy to get lost and disenfranchised
The answers aren't so simple, if I said it was I'd be lying.

Many things have changed but the principles should remain the same...
Create ideas for humanity and nothing in vain.





An anthropological progression





Earth, fire, wind, and water.
Shelter, food, clothes, and daughter.


Herbs, poultices, hexes,
Draining swamps, closing wells, dissection really vexes...
... And eventually - we have XX, XY; the two sexes.


From pebbles, from stars:
We have Venus, we have Mars.
From cavemen, from twigs:
We have CERN, we have Higgs.

We've come far - you're here, you're reading this.
We can go further - but is there anything we'd miss?

(Undeniably. That's a worry we'll just have to dismiss.)





The Cost of War





War; waged by Wolves
at the age of sixty
and fought by sheep
before age thirty.
Greed, power, the lust for more,
fuels the wicked machine that is war.
Whether blades and guns, sticks and stones,
all end with shattered dreams,
families,
homes.

Old fools bicker to begin the fight.
Then the Blind are summoned to lose their sight.

Diamonds, land, drugs and oil,
paid in immortal blood spilt on Her soil.
Yet the Blind pursue to complete their quest,
and challenge their humanity to the ultimate test.

Breathe, comrade, and caress your gun.
Your hands are cold but they say warmth is to be won.

Then,
Darkness is released at the pull of a trigger.
Darkness; my friend. The all consuming figure.

Wars fought for years then ended in a day.
Both laid to rest and for both we pray.
Return, all those who went to die
so that your mothers, sisters and widows may cry.
Our prayers will reach the ears of every religion,
But where is God here and His jurisdiction?

They say He is present and in this, I believe,
but His seat in Heaven so high, He cannot leave.

This is the cost to pay, when a child of not even four
is found waiting alone outside His Kingdom's door.





Falling apart





We were both young,
When the song, in harmony, is sung,
As I set off the wall between us,
Even the shades of trees can feel the blast.

You are the best of friends,
In the world full of offense,
Whenever it makes me feel down,
You bury my frown in the frozen ground.

But at spring mending time, you finally got to go
It’s the day my apple trees, too, stand in sorrow,
The mischief in me, do burn it in the sun,
So no flaw in me, you can see one.

Sitting together on the upper boulders,
I cried all the heart on your shoulders,
The memories; I still see them beyond the hill,
Had the yelping dogs their claws, still cannot kill.

To seek your love, no work of hunters will do it,
Reminiscing about our days could just place me under it,
Treat time as just another kind of outdoor game,
So once again, you are then to say my name.





Little Girl





Frightened little girl, sad and alone
Broken and in pieces, She’s lost all control
A laugh that comes instead of tears, a smile that hides the hurt
Inside She’s a castle, crumbling apart

Perfect little girl, praised and adored
Confused by expectations, She can barely breathe,
Love as pure as gold, hate like savage beasts
Juxtaposed in herself, who is She?

Kind little girl, gentle and polite
Always in control; calm, serene,
Thoughtfulness and helpfulness-what qualities!
At least make others happy, how hard can it be?

Naïve little girl, always looks for good
Blinded without reason; optimism flawed
Lies and deception, her trust misunderstood
Innocence is preyed upon-She’s labeled gullible

Cautious little girl, guarded; in a shell,
People-overrated, destined just to fail
Her heart protected by a wall, She can’t let you in
You’ll never be her failure; She’s far too well concealed

Obedient little girl, follow your marked path
Do as you are told, questions-do not ask,
Live up to their standards; prove that you’re of worth
Replace that blank look with a smile, just because you must.

Broken little girl, scars don’t always fade,
Troubled deep within, where from all this pain?
Pretends She isn’t hurt, look her in the eye,
Explaining is impossible, this-we call it life.

Lonely little girl, who does She really have?
If failure’s guaranteed, then no one stays around,
She feels too deep, cares too much. Could She be loved that strong?
It’s hard to see that happening; unimaginable.

Uncertain little girl, how much longer does She have?
Shyness gets her nowhere, it simply holds her back
Live a little, loosen up-that’s what people say
She worries though and thinks too much; unsure of every step.

Strong little girl, She’s stronger than you know,
Maybe She’s the first to cry but those tears, She does not own
Falling tears, a rage unknown, a hate that’s so untamed
Her knuckles-how they know her wrath, her knuckles and her screams.

Smart little girl, knows She feels too hard,
People-unreliable, her passion elsewhere lies
No one is worth it, not worth going insane,
She buries herself in other things, things less capable of blame.

Numb little girl, feels just a shiver down her spine,
The mouth that boasts of her, is the very first to doubt
Utterly disconnected, truly paralyzed,
She takes all the critique; it makes her feel alive.

Fragile little girl, as foolish as could be,
Sometimes She gives up on life-no future can be seen.
Tired and worn out, what more can She do?
Her spirit is exhausted, consumed-there’s no more fuel.

Weary little girl, burdened by her past,
Memories that haunt her, uncontrollable relapse,
Her worthlessness-just ask that one, she’ll know just what She means.
Shattered from an early age, She grew amongst the thorns.

Strange little girl, cryptic little life,
Emotion cannot master her; She always wins the fight.
Is this the right way to live? Really, who can say?
She’s normal, just like anyone. I will not be derailed.





Boiling Point





At 9 years old, I knew that
I wanted to be a scientist.
Ten years later, people ask me
‘What are you doing at university?’
At 19 years old, I tell them
I’m doing a Chemistry degree.
Reactions are varied,
Amusement, scorn, surprise, awe,
‘But it’s so difficult!’ ‘Isn’t it a bore?’
One woman in particular
Sticks out for me.

‘Chemistry?’ She says.
'That’s a very dry subject isn’t it?’
In one statement
She makes my passion sound
Like a river suffering from drought
Like flaky skin on a winter’s day
Like a stump of wood left over from a felled tree
Chemistry, she says, has nothing to do with me.
Lady, if you’re reading this, let me tell you
That Chemistry is as wet as the shampoo
You use in your hair
As red as the expensive lipstick you wear
As loud as your fireworks on New Year’s Eve
As colourless and odourless as the air you breathe
As warm as the sunrise that wakes you up
As cold as the crushed ice in your plastic cup
Yes, it’s dry, too: I’ll give you that,
But the dry things, you can’t live without!
From the sodium chloride that flavours your meals
To the chromium in your stainless steel rings,
The silicon dioxide in the window that brings
Warmth and light
As you sit inside aluminium and enjoy your flight.
So you see, everything you use-
(You, a mass of carbon and oxygen and hydrogen
And more elements than you’ve heard of)-
Everything you see, taste, smell
Has something to do with Chemistry.

Chemistry is silence and noise
Colour and touch and taste
It is the blood that flows in your veins
In the pills you take for pain
In the signals sent from your brain
To your eyes, ears, mouth, nose,
In the current that flows
From your head to your toes.
It is hot and dry, cold and wet, green and blue.
Yes, Chemistry is all of those things.
But in short,
It is You.





What is Chemistry





What is Chemistry
the professor asked
raised hands and answers
its periodic elements
its atoms and molecules
its kinetics and thermodynamics
no said the professor

What is Chemistry
something to do with investigating
something to do with properties
something to do with reactions
yes, yes but of what
substances of which matter is composed
close, but link it all together

What is Chemistry
investigating the periodic elements
the properties of atoms and molecules
as well as kinetics and thermodynamics of reactions
yes, almost got it now
what do we study that underpins it all
just think now of the basics

What is Chemistry
oh I know, its the protons and electrons
the way they are linked we can measure
we can observe the movement of electrons
that is what reactions are
rearranging electrons to release energy
or putting energy in to do it backwards

What is Chemistry
its basically all about the study of electrons
two give a bond
four give a double bond
six give a triple bond
one is alone as a radical
and the all live in set orbitals





Saving earth




There is no hope left for saving earth.
It will never be believed that
we took care of this planet.
our generation
care only for ourselves.
we decided we cannot
change our lifestyles to suit the planet.
we realised what is important, and it’s that we
exploit this planet as much as we can.
the worst thing to do is
reduce reuse recycle.
instead we
just make more of what we need.
we resolved we can not
stop climate change.
we made it our job to
keep burning fossil fuels.
despite what people said we could not
put a stop to power and money clouding our judgement.
it was our duty to
make sure nothing else could survive on this planet.
we could not be the generation to
fight for change.
instead we
just ignore the problems.
it’s stupid to think that we can
be optimistic about our survival.

This is our future, unless we turn it around (now read from the bottom to the top)





Read your heart





Read your heart,
release your soul

Even with mistakes,
or even if you fall

Just wake up, you are now
stronger than before

As you hold the love, the dream
and your goal

Don't stop, whatever might happen,
don't give up at all

All the doors are opened in the dream
and there is no wall

Just close your eyes, read your heart
and you'll find your pearl...!





A Cooper pair




Dancing on the Fermi sea,
just you and me.
Oh how exciting that would be.

Apart we were born,
and apart we shall stay,
but for this one night,
would you be my pair?

The laws of Nature
have torn us apart,
But then came Cooper,
and here we are.

Pair with me
and entangled we shall be.
Dancing on the Fermi sea,
just you and me.

To a crowd full of ions,
dressed and disguised,
we dance freely and unhindered,
two graceful swans entwined.

Oh how tender is your touch,
oh how fragile is your grip.
Let this dance last forever,
like the moon and sea.

And so it may be,
and the world will see,
that even at room temperature
we may still be.





Reflection





Reflection, reflection, what do I see?
A familiar face looking back at me
A resemblance of mum and a hint of my dad
And the same cheeky smile that I had as a lad
A look of my daughters and my sons far away
I miss them and hope that I’ll see them one day
The scars and the bumps have their own tale to tell
Of hospital, surgery and feeling unwell
Behind the facade there is worry and doubt
And also confidence that I’ll work it all out
Reflection, reflection, we’re doing okay
So close your eyes, sleep, it’s the end of the day.





Once, I was young.





Once I was young
I had no shoes
So I sang a song
To accompany my blues.

Once I was ill
I had no pill
So I had a will
A dream to fulfil.

Pharmacy wasn't my cup of tea
A career in engineering was all I see
MHMT, CRE and Thermodynamics
Let's not forget the economics!

PFR or CSTR?
Recycle ratio 50R?
Propose a design, yes you may
But think again
Is it worth the pay?

The world is growing
The oils are clearing
The soots are travelling
The sea is crying.

Once I graduate I may find myself stepping
Into the field that keeps the globe going.

I may be offshore, in the office
or the labs, unsure
But definitely not
in the bank for sure!





The great calamity




We might lose sight of what's in reality,
If we became the slaves of technology..
Indeed, it helps to fulfill our necessity,
To close that hole of weakness in our society..
But then we want more because we are greedy,
We hate to admit it, that pure sign of gluttony..
Inventions were made, but for the sake of our own belly,
The poor is neglected as we, the rich lost our mercy..
No we can't turn back to rewrite the history,
For we are creatures in a grip of a greater entity..
But if we realized now,
This very moment,
There is still chance to escape the great calamity..





Crisis In Nature





Nature
Torn & Shaped
For Technology's Sake
Are These Reforms Enough, Too Late,
Innate?





NOTHING





The universe was but, at first,

A super-charged blank space that burst,

Exploding with a mighty roar,

Expanding since for evermore.


From nothing sprang the start of time,

The source of heat and force sublime,

From nothing sprang the sudden birth

Of stars, our Sun and planet Earth.


And nothing was the very seed

On which all living creatures feed,

The base of absolutely nought,

Foundation of all human thought.


Yes, nothing is the least extent

On any scale of measurement,

A range of positivity

From zero to infinity.


Yes, nothing is of great import,

Pure logic lauds its number nought

And proves the worst that can befall

Is something that’s no good at all.

________________


A collaboration between Edward Potter & David Potter.
Dec. 2015.





Nature In Danger




I live in a life that everything is easy,
Where technology influences the baby,
While people are getting busy,
And children has become lazy,

When I walk by in a city,
My life seems so lively,
But somehow I feel so sorry,
As nature has lost its pretty

This world changes tremendously,
Where machine has transformed from bulky to tiny,
Humans are controlled by the binary,
And communication exceeds without boundary.

Yes, computer has made people happy,
Mobiles connect people widely,
But nature is not our enemy,
Don’t treat them so badly.

Oh you big company,
Just to preserve your legacy,
You dare to ruin the nature’s family,
Without a pinch of sympathy,

Skyscraper has split the sky,
Technology becomes a greedy guy,
Nature is forced to say goodbye,
As the time goes by.

This world is getting angry,
As technology climb in hurry,
Where candle became a history,
And lamp has made a glory,

Sun rises with full of shy,
Rivers and lakes are getting dry,
Help the earth before it die,
Or later on, they make us cry.

O human please awake,
The anger was showed from the earthquake,
Stop from pointing out the mistake,
All responsibilities shall we take.





C.E.L.I.N.E.





A willow tree stands tall and proud,
Seasons pass, how many, I’ve lost count,
The leaves turn yellow, they fall to ground.
A timeless tale, a legend, its root unfound,
That if you carve your initials here,
You and your loved one would be bound.
There is no such tree inside my town,
So I will carve your initials where it will probably never be found:
Carelessly you brush your hair, revealing more of the face that ensnares.
Ensnares, enchants, and captures my heart, oh, how I wish we would never be apart.
Like a thousand sunrises is how warm you are; like the colours of a thousand sunsets, your beauty shines far.
I’ve often heard people fall in love for no apparent reason, for love is blind, irrational, a mysterious emotion.
Not in my case, I know exactly why I fell for you, it was your kindness, your independence, and your values.
Ever I wish I could find that willow tree, but then if I did, would your carve your name with me?





Light Year





I see you,
I run to you,
but I will never reach you.





Mnemophobia





There were nights
when thunder bellowed through the windows
and raindrops fell like silver coated darts
she sat in bed, covers drawn
lost in thought.

There were nights
when the shadows stirred
nostalgia seeped through the ceilings
and cascade
down the bedroom walls.

Her nightmares haunted
ghosts from her grotesque past
faces she vowed
to never see again.

She would wake up
her screams echoing the room
darkness fills her lungs
limbs, too painful to move.

Outside, street lights would not stop flickering
the stars
were nowhere to be seen.

And the night sky
a phantom black looming over her scars
would soon devour her heart.





Circles





Circles.
Round in nature,
for it is nature that is round.

As colossal masses travel upon set paths,
they spin, constrained.
Moving vast distances mightily,
yet restrained and powerless.
Forever bound by the omnipotent force.
Forever bound by the perpetual dimension.

For we each are bound by our circle,
with defined beginning and ends,
with permissible transverse motion, we still compass on a fixed radial system.
Can our course however be altered?
Can we obey the limits but distort our span?
Can my circle be more meaningful?

Circles.
Round in nature,
for it is nature that is round.





Planck perceives.





'Cross the celestial sphere unfolds
A tale of creation as yet untold
Through the cosmos a signal travelled
Mountainous data to be unravelled
For us, no deeper thirst or yearning
For science, for meaning, for life, for learning.





A Propagator





I sit across from that man
My father,
And we each hold a beer
And smile,
And the day is still bright
And young
But the conversation is dry
Already,
So he asks me how my studies are,
"What have you learnt?"
And just for a second I flush
But quickly respond,
"I can construct a Feynman diagram."
He nods in approval,
I grab a napkin and scrawl
Show fermions and bosons dancing in the vacuum,
And we talk in ideas and forget the maths,
And I begin to feel I understand,
Though the exam's been and gone,
And the conversation flows
Then the wind starts to blow
And the napkin takes flight,
Then we're sat here again,
So I clear my throat and ask,
"How's work?"





Flight of Gulls




When I behold the flight of gulls at sea
My spectacles will blur these foreign lands
For I'll devise, in awe, a way to be
Back home if I had cambered, feathered hands.
So why not lift my boat with welded wings
And fly to port above the wretched waves?
My mind designs like Wrights with hopes to bring
This pearl of pink and white, for her I saved.
I ask, if she were nought, is there a point
To conquer skies with aluminium planes?
Perhaps for knowledge, not for static coins
Or rescuing, unlike Enola Gay.
No matter if these gulls are mechanised,
Still love's the field in which my compass lies.





My Degree




Sometimes, it makes me laugh
Sometimes, it makes me cry

Tests, assignments, dissertations
Exams that give me butterflies

Sometimes, it's easy
Sometimes, a hard try

But I know that tears will fall
When I have to say goodbye.





I was an I-BEAM




Last Night I had this dream
That I was an I-Beam

Stress and strain might break my bones
But I'll still smile and not groan

A few screws and I can hold on Bridges
But first you have to clean my ridges

Holding the weight all this while
I Lost my strength and shine

But I will hold on and pull it through
Because I know my purpose is true





Our lessless night





"1
A.M
Hungry"

"Well,
We'll..
guide you to warm subway"





Unsustainable Student




Here in the information age, taking centre stage,
a technological rampage overloads our emotional pressure gauge,
guided by our google sage and chained to a handheld anti-social media cage,
the only time we disengage it’s met by a “lost connection” rage.

All of history knows it’s love bound by a single rose,
followed by a beautiful prose
where around the subject each line flows,
Each time a new feeling arose we once dared to personally disclose,
Now when that feeling grows its destroyed by the line “bros before hoes”.

Feeling depressed? The quick fix of a pill just snuck out.
No cure, just corporate pricks whose will dispenses awestruck doubt.
Those people just need to Netflix and chill the f**k out.

Whilst scientists convey their unease most reject their premise with ease,
Ignorance Brought us to our knees by the loss of those crucial bees,
whilst collapse of world economy’s created the rise to our tuition fees ,
so surely just to appease some printer credits please?

The charm of the politicians charades to lull our grit
their acquiescent performance parades a plethora of dull wit
yet their policies amount to fifty shades of bull s**t .

In name of holy childe how much blood has been spilled,
and when the death toll is billed our morals are then killed.
If the war machine stilled, could hope of rebirth be instilled,
as we are now adequately skilled to perform an Eden rebuild.

How much we feel the fool liking the smell of each fossil fuel,
when to a child it seems so cruel wearing a gas mask to school,
and each trend makes us drool as we are but a corporate tool,
how they mock and ridicule whilst turning ever ocean to a cesspool.

Once Mother Nature held such revere but now her screams are clear.
If Animals could speak their fear would we our path start to veer,
would most even shed a tear or would mockery be made with a sneer.
Thus a future resolute and austere lies within the heart of an engineer.

Such social, political and environmental duress,
seems so egotistic to worry about exam stress ,
but it’s time to put an end to this digress,
the ramblings
of an unsustainable student I guess.





Tictac





Roses are red
Violets are blue
The lady is pretty
But the roses are wilting
The violets are dead
The beauty is aching
Tictac,tictac
What despaired this dismal rhyme?
One part timer,two parts vodka.





In this dream




In this dream,
We grow old together.

Now your hair is thinner,
And sometimes, when the moon wishes it so,
It becomes a pool of molten silver,
Glowing indolently, oblivious to its devastation to my senses.
But then I reach up to run my hands through it,
And it is still yours.
It is still soft
And it still sings under my touch.

And now your eyes,
They crease at the sides;
Tiny cracks and little folds,
Possessively hoarding your tears and your smiles.
But as I settle my gaze upon them,
They are still brilliant,
And now they watch me
With a warm familiarity that makes my heart swell and break all at once.

And – and your lips.
Your lips still skim my skin,
They whisper and they turn;
The corners crawling up your face,
Leaving indents in your cheeks.
Your lips are still your lips
And they are warm
And they are here.

In this dream,
You are mine
And it is late
And we are all right.





Mathmo's Lament




Chalkdust on jumpers, worn above shirts.
In a war against whiteboards that make our eyes hurt.

We winge, whine, and wail that the white is too bright.
You all know the mathmo's worst nightmare is light.

Solar powered Casio? A cruel joke of course.
When did you last see a mathmo outdoors?

When asked to play rugby, our answer is no.
'Cause we might get hurt, and besides, our sport's Go.

And maybe we don't go out clubbing a lot.
Where it's two pounds a pint and (cos(theta))^2+(sin(theta))^2 for a shot.

But despite this, we mathmos will have a good time
on our 23rd birthday. We'll be in our prime.





Uni Life




They expect me to be a star
Destined to be amazing
But I am happy from afar
I don’t need to be gazing

I live life till I’m full
Pints filled to the brim
But when friends are dull
There’s always Skyrim

Money has always been a concern
I have always shopped at Lidl
Fillet steak oh how I yearn
For your tender bloody middle

Another problem that I’ve found
Is my constant lack of time
Essays always keep me drowned
Professors their partners in crime

Deciding my priorities
Be it booty or a test
I’ll put down this isosceles
Because it’s time to get undressed

I get the bus everyday
There is a bigmouthed Shrek
He’s the opposite of Parfait
I want my hands on his neck

For most 9am lectures
The attendance seems to be slim
Comprehending conjectures
That seem made up on a whim

Only 4 hours of slumber
It seems that death draws close
Fighting eyelid encumber
Too late friends, adiós.





Four By Four





One material balance to rule them all
Two, if you consider energy balances at all
Three authors or more and your citation needs that et al
Four years of this degree is probably like hitting a brick wall

Five steps to construct the perfect McCabe-Thiele diagram
Six dreaded yet surprisingly nice January exams
Seven days before is when you really start to cram
Eight late emails from irate lecturers always ending up in spam

Nine AM narcolepsy inducing long-haul lectures
Tentatively scheduled meetings with elusive project members
Eleven PM adrenalin spikes caused by Turnitin based misadventures
Twelve unopened copies of TCE that slowly turned into your makeshift furniture

13 weird ways in which students procrastinate online before their deadline!
Fourteen lecture venues that you hardly ever reach on time
Fifteen minutes of infamy brought on by asking that question on enzymes
16 shades of grey hex colours aptly summarise Manchester's weather; how sublime!





Roman Water





See the essential nature, water has,
A source of life, is it found in Mars?
The Romans knew, and thus they drew,
A master plan, their rulers were stern,
Baths and fountains, brought countless gains,
To the rich and poor, none would see demure,
For all had the right, no need for a fight.





The Weight of the Stars





I’d taken myself up a tree, for the ground
had been pulling magnetic fields on the blood
and I’d wanted to hear the stars. And round
the mottled path he shuffled, footsteps muffled
by winking drops in the grass. His hands –
Clasped, his face all dip and shadow and eyes cast down
He moved with granite in bones and I,
I welcomed his granite for I can make feathers of stones.

With easel and brush he stood, paused
in his time, in his tunnel. I asked
What of the stillness? The grey in your cause?
He told me that grey had settled on skin like carbon fumes
over the years and smudged with his tears
as his world had struck blow upon blow on itself
and the landscapes he mirrored weren’t dead –
They just weren’t alive.

Put down your easel, your oils and your brush,
for you shall not paint ‘till you are not blind
Stop looking so hard – instead try to see;
Not just with your eyes! – you must see with your mind.
A bespectacled man told me once that this world is what-ever you make of it, but I
know him to be wrong, there’s just more to the world
than a blinkered soul ever finds.

I showed him the woods at mid-day and how
the light all pulsed in rivulets, and undulating,
danced and fed into pools of gold which trembled alive
with the leaves and the stone beneath the floor.
The energy here, that shivered, that bred
the intricate shapes that we saw.

I showed him the water, the waves and the weight
of the crests, compressed like pressurized smoke,
Choked, contained, chained stirring to earth,
‘till it climbed and swelled and swayed as it rose,
Alone; not a break, not a crack nor a fault
for cohesion and simmering, crackling pattern
made gravity grind to a ground-breaking halt
till all of the weight folded and creased as it dropped
and shattered and spoke:
awake.

I showed him the stars as they were without glass –
a light so ancient, far and fast
that a prism of knowledge governs and guides its presence,
its web and ethereal path. A glittering dome! –
where anarchy reigns, disorder maintains a decline that arcs
just over our heads! A flickering spread –
A power more shining and whole than your
God, more profound than your oceans, your emptiest skies,
for it trembles in us; it’s written in blood,
the inherent code we live by.

In that first moment when my eyes had touched
on those of the painter, in his there had been
a film, stretched taught – now loosened to water, now turned by the rhythm of what he had seen,
With the weight of the stars, to his easel and brush, and,
not a word, he took them back up
and there from the tip spilled all of the matter, the energy
pulsing afresh in his blood.

That week I heard talk of a frenzied man
who could capture the stars with a flick of his hand,
who stored sunlight and wind on a canvas to sell,
took portraits of earth using colour from heaven
and pattern from hell and somewhere in me
a fear was sown – with sight there comes knowledge and knowledge is weight
too much for one mind alone.
So I searched out the painter to warn him that being
and clarity came with a price; that seeing
the stars was a burden
as well as a light.

I found him creased on a quiet street.
His arms round his knees, a hole in his head,
no shoes on his feet and he looked up and saw me and crumpled still more –
“Make it stop,” he said, “I can see it all,
every star every stone, I have it in here, I wanted it out
so I cut off my ear but I saw only blood and it’s in there still,
it’s burning me up! It’s making me ill!”
I looked down at the cobbles which glimmered with rain,
sky-water from mountains and oceans and plains and
pipes, and I knew that the bounded pain
he felt was a constant I could not change, so, like always
I watched and I walked away.

I have travelled and I have seen, I have unravelled
an honesty. I have witnessed a cosmos’ birth and I
have seen it all from Earth. I stand, I watch, I never take part, but in truth
I never believed he could last with my eyes,
when before all he knew was a quiet, a sadness
to help him to see in the dark.
I’m there in the future and there in the past so
I have seen death but have not played a part –
the death of the painter will stay in my heart
for I was the one who crushed his spirit
beneath the weight of the stars.





A Physicist's War





Months of preparation have led me to here,
The pending battle in my head so clear.
With a single shout from a far-off man,
I ready my weapons and make my plan.

I scan the enemy and start the war
While my unused things lie upon the floor.
My rage is frightening to behold
As a Homeric epic starts to unfold.

But this battle is fought on a single blank page;
My pens my weapons, my focus my rage.
The room full of people; I ignore the rest,
My enemy is just my physics test.

As the hours pass by, I begin to slow.
But I renew the pace because I know
there isn't long left, the end is in sight:
One final push of gargantuan might.

"Please stop writing now and close your exam."
I close it confidently with a slam.
Stress fades to relief, relief fades to bliss,
Relaxed feelings that I am soon to miss.

Emerging victorious, my mood starts to soar,
But winning one battle won't win me the war.
Today's is done, the next is tomorrow.
Oh exams, "Parting is such sweet sorrow".





Beauty of a Dream




Long after the sun had surrendered to an amber horizon,
My eyelids bowed to mourn its passing,
With eyes that began to peruse an obsidian expanse,
And a breath that slowed as if the flowing sands of time had ebbed into a mere trickle,
Everything seemed to descend into a weightless void,
My body, constrained by the shackles of the day was released, and began to ascend from reality,
Flickers of colour darted into the dark abyss to dance defiantly,
Their volume and effervescence grew and enriched my vision,
Time had dissipated into a frail figment of my imagination,
I could feel the whirring cogs of my conscious mind grinding to a halt,
Yielding to its subdued sibling,
I was delving into my sub-conscious.

The myriad of colours began to coalesce, forming images from my inner sanctum,
Sound seamlessly spliced into my animated mental montage,
Inaudible clamour eventually progressed into a crystal clear cacophony,
I was the master of these lands,
Here I could entertain the great and good, and receive rapturous applause and admiration,
I could lead armies to heroic victories that would echo through the ages,
I could defy gravity and soar amongst the birds, looking down at the troubles of man,
Here I could walk blissfully unaware of greed, malice and death in my perfectly unique world,
If I so chose.

Yet ultimately my intricate visions came to pass with the rising sun,
As inevitably they always did,
Leaving only a scarce imprint in my mind,
So is the finite beauty of a dream.





Lost Moments





Regretting the moments, I took for granted,

Moments when I was eaten by pride and hatred.

What if I had told you what I feel?

Would it change my life's wheel?

Alone in my head,

I'm feeling so low,

You won’t understand,

No one can know.

Where do I go now?

When I'm feeling so lost and I don't want to be found.

When I'm looking and listening for that peace in my heart.

But I know I'll never hear that sound.

Where do I go when I'm trying to laugh but all I can do I cry?

Where do I go when the sun never seems to shine?





Chem Eng: Plumbing with Maths





This is a saga of Chem Eng, lest I forget to mention,
Hopefully this poem will grab your attention,

It’s full of concepts like angular momentum,
I’m probably the only poet who’s come out of Preston.

Chem Eng quickly demands all of your mental resources,
‘Reynolds number is the ratio of inertial to viscous forces’,

Frictional forces make your train of thought lose traction,
Mass transfer’s the driving force which drives you to distraction,

Then you move to Laplace transforms and back to partial fractions,
Newton’s third law tells you all actions have reactions,

Matrices are pivotal to Gaussian elimination,
And some science puns need no explanation,

In labs it’s not proper to neglect error propagation,
Rate laws need you to concentrate on concentration,

Now we look at Chemical Thermodynamics,
Binary mixtures and statistical mechanics,

For concentrated mixtures, use Raoult’s law,
And if it’s dilute, that’s what Henry’s is for,

And what exactly is chemical potential?
I know what it is: it’s driving me mental,

More convoluted paths have greater tortuosity,
If epsilon is greater, there’s more porosity,

MHMT is all about the velocity,
The resistance to shear stress is called the viscosity,

All of the mentions of Bird, Stewart and Lightfoot,
Can I really pretend that I give a sugar-coated...?

Struggling to look like you’re still paying attention,
When you see for the fourth time the same derivation,

You begin to wonder if you’re being taught in the same, identical tautologies,
For bad jokes and half-rhymes, I make no apologies,

I should try to slip in a rhetorical device like chiasmus,
For my GCSE English I’ll never feel compunctious,

Debates in MLP are laced with logical fallacies,
Contrasting with English Literature’s many essays on phalluses,

Even if students are dead knowledgeable about stuff like latent heat,
They never seem to get it when I say, ‘It’ll be reet’,

I reckon they just don’t listen and it gets my goat,
You wonder if they’re not using their ears or owt,

It’d be proper rude if it were a speech impediment,
But you’re wondering why I’m banging on about my accent,

Instead of writing rhymes about my weekly drinking binge,
Or the many engineering clichés engineered to make you cringe,

Not all hangovers deserve a postmortem,
Even those from when you were mortal peri-(Frank) Morton,

Ultimately I’ve dashed to dash your hopes of iambic pentameters,
Instead you’ve suffered my talk of work done and HAZOP parameters,

Along with occasional mention of forces around objects annular,
This is a summary of my life at the University of Manchester,

So now that I’ve finally lost all of my focus,
I should be about ready to go out to design a process,

Didn’t Einstein say education was what’s left when no schooling remains?
I think that he was right - there’s only Chem Eng in my brain,

Therefore without further discussion of diffusion,
I bring my pun-laden poem to its conclusion.





Pink Moon




The eighth year of having aphasia for the viscount,
Much deeper understanding of illusion's beauty.
Too difficult to store a lovely moment,
It is the gaze ripples my heart.

You could expand slightly more,
Receiving all the simple purities.
Never, never lose the fragrant flavor,
It is the floating imagination.

Science and art are hiding behind the innocence,
Fancy sitting alone and meditating in Beijing.
I admit the existence of the subjective world,
But I desperately wanna explore at leisure.

I care for rosy down, twilight‘s whisper and pink moon.
I wish to take every single moment out, tasting with you.





Eternal Enigma





Searching eyes, over the horizon, wander.
For what was lost; a lone meander.
To sooth the ache, to live another day,
To fool the mind that the heart was gay.

As a longing wanderer following its star
Getting closer, only to be flung far.
Alone I weep, seas apart.
Words cannot save my broken heart.

Sophists talk not, nor the poets praise,
Artists dare not have a strand to raise.
Eons and epochs have said and done
All in the name of love, undone.





Math Rhapsody




i) Show that Maths
< 0

They have no hearts, they that count
And calculate our ever ending lives
Purpose holds no lust for us and what's worse
Mathematics for its own dead sake smothered in bonewhite chalk dust - fitting fleeting skeleton tonnes scratching out the humdrum ho hum
Ought to be an ode, connect my social nodes up to electrodes and shock me again!
Make me breath life not snortle up brief snatches of truth crust
But I must
Wade through rigour and musk
To be bigger than the sun setting at dusk


ii) Show that Maths > 0

Trying get you down with all that calculus?
What they didn't know is that they count on us.
Get the answers right, black and white, classic Atticus
Flicking off the hours on my abacus said you behave cos we've got all day
Rapping along to an old sign wave saw blade 808 self made
perpetual e’motion in dreamscapes
Watching their mouths as they all gape
to a new infinity new reality
crank up the rigour and throw out the'ill fallacy
from my mind palace
don't be callous without cause
cos without physics laws and love all is lost and at max cost

It's all over the blackboard
The writings on the wall
The chalk breaks into dust now
Just waiting for the fall

Nobody talks about all of us,
they go on all about genius, standing on shoulders of dwarves by induction,
they are the Sherlocks we are the Watsons,
Together we make the power of a double barreled shotgun:

iii) Using parts i and ii and proof by contradiction, help me see.

How we have heard of the light of things!
I see the dream weavers
Truth schemers
Proof wielders
Thinkers tink'rers
Darkness shielders
We are but blinded fielders
finding the lost code semicolon;
Seek the substitution,
Teach someone who wants to learn
And make a contribution

The linear lateral,
All without adderall
Racing against the pall
Trying to make sense of it all
Or just some, and wonder at the rest until it clicks

Click

Did you hear the click?
Did you see it in their eyes?
When the answer comes
And turns a glum face into pleasant adolescent surprise.
Have you felt the click and taught it too,
Raleigh said the sky is blue,
a fractal fraction scatt'ring to a starry hue, a writhing stew
of the 4D wibbly wobbly,
my spacetime odyssey honestly,
this is our time to refract and reflect protect and correct what or who's next?
Can we be the best we can be?
See the click if you've got good optometry
If you are the one to beat
Click it till you find your feat.





doesNotCompute




Oh how I feel like I’m trapped within this endless loop,
When will I catch a break?
I’ve been waving my flag for so long now,
Is there no one to handle my event?
Foreach time I try and climb the stack,
It overflows and I fall flat on my back.
This execution is painfully dull,
All my pointers just point to null.

But all this changed on one recursion,
When I came across a kindred version.

Address one one triple zero one zero one zero,
You became my binary hero.
You cleared my cache with your debugger,
You became my syntactic sugar.
You shift my bits in such an efficient way,
My one true operand (with no delay).
You made a random seed that only we know,
A perfect match, that’s so logical.





A boatmaking goat





Listen here you goat!
i'll pop outside and dig a moat - to float your boat
Not that one, the one
with the minifield and particle accelerator
"Ahh" said the goat
yor a Feynman





Variable _0x5A - Will Change Later





Nominally A, that tongue gagged title,
My veritable existence doth blow,
Chester cheesy mitts leave myself quite ill,
From average text parsing coding Joe,
As babe I suckled Biro stained napkin,
Why, that cohesion is enviable,
Polygone for this primitive bumpkin,
I meant Y that dreadful, dullard variable,
Pleasant when you can map to graph paper,
Internal decimal no floating point,
Perchance effort spent selecting vapour,
The mist smears an explicative gunpoint,
Software Engineer prints facial terror,
Ego means naught to Compiler Error.





Relatively Speaking





Sitting around in my rest frame
With my lengths, my time both staying the same
When all of a sudden, what should fly past
But an accelerated proton, so charged and fast
I guessed .8c and it could just be me
But its length contracted so suddenly
And when 10 seconds passed, he counted 8
As his time began to dilate

I was intrigued, I had to know more
So he told me of the gamma factor
And how lengths seem shorter and time frames longer
When there is movement relative to an observer
How results from experiments will be the same
Despite being in different inertial frames
And each frame will have the same speed of light
To hold with Einstein’s second postulate

Now it may seem strange that things should be this way
But think about the maths and you will say
It’s common sense when you know the cause
Like conservation of energy or Newton’s laws
Although it may baffle the untrained mind
Think of the Physics and you will find
Relatively speaking, this is how it should be
Relatively speaking it makes sense to me





'An Ode to Augen'





Gneiss eyes





Life of an Academic





People claim the life of an academic is somewhat easier than the rest,
That they do not have to continually perform at their up most best,
However I pose these questions to anyone that will listen,
Is it easy to constantly think with the upmost precision?
Where decisions can alter the lives of those around you?
And also dramatically affect oneself too?

Academics in every field will always have the upmost passion,
And they are not wearing lab coats to keep up with fashion,
They dedicate their lives to knowledge and research,
But to the public they will never emerge,

Their goals are never selfish,
But their results will always be cherished,
Why anyone would go into research is a mystery,
However people have been doing so throughout history,

The credit of those who change our world through science is never enough,
Trust me, I know, it is extremely tough,
Thus those who have this passion and drive,
I applaud thee and hope you have a life and career that will thrive.





High Q Haiku





I'm oscillating
Damping is negligible.
Still oscillating.





EPS haiku





The abstract science
for the concrete technology
working for human





Completing my PhD in materials





Step by step I come closer to the tower,
plan in hand but fate holds the power,
for every timetable and plan you make,
alterations will be made for research’s sake.
I sit at my desk and get my laptop out,
open my software and try to figure what my peaks are about.
Crash, re-open, crash, this isn’t unusual.
I must get it working, the results are crucial.

Time to give my eyes a break,
perhaps I’ll do some sample prep.
Gather my metal, polishing pads and tape
To the lab I head and the office I escape.
The noise of the cutter fills the room,
murmuring of pumps and engines boom.
The grinding pad spins at 300 rpm,
the sample must be flat with no bend.
My fingers support it, skimming the pad.
Without the protective tape, there would be blood which is bad.
I’ve experienced cuts and it was certainly not pleasant,
for experimental scientists PPE is like a birthday present.

The microscope is my next port of call,
it lets me look at particles that are really very small.
The samples are ready,
I must keep my hands steady
for a slight movement
may mean waiting for vacuum improvement.
The chambers pump down, the voltage is on.
The surface is what the electrons look down upon.
The darkness surrounds a green fluorescent light,
when the cleaner enters unexpectedly it gives me a fright!
For the room is quiet and concentration is high,
imaging surfaces is like counting stars in the nights sky.
Tiny particles are spread across my sample,
I must select a few to show as an example.

Analysing the particles is a mammoth task,
one that will set my PhD path.
I leave the dark room with some data,
the area I have looked at not even a millimetre.
I pack my belongings safely away,
my steps will be repeated the following day.

A PhD is difficult, tiring and frustrating
but the rewards are great and worth the waiting.
For when your analysis is completed,
questions are answered,
progress celebrated.
It's important to keep the flame of motivation ignited,
as solving the unknown keeps everyone excited.
Sponsors, supervisors, friends and family,
they are there to help and do it happily.
The physical sciences are here to stay,
research continues come what may.





I went to Sigma Aldrich and I bought ...





I work in a laboratory where science is abundant,
But sometimes the fun is a little redundant,
For when stirring and swirling gets a little too dull,
I suggest a small game which will get in your skull!
It involves the alphabet and how well you recall,
So the pressure is on, try not to stall!

I went to Sigma Aldrich and I bought some acetone!
I went to Sigma Aldrich and I bought some acetone and some butyl lithium!
I went to Sigma Aldrich and I bought some acetone, some butyl lithium and some carbon dioxide!
I went to Sigma Aldrich and I bought some acetone, some butyl lithium, some carbon dioxide and some diethyl ether!
I went to Sigma Aldrich and I bought some acetone, some butyl lithium, some carbon dioxide, some diethyl ether and some europium!
I went to Sigma Aldrich and I bought some acetone, some butyl lithium, some carbon dioxide, some diethyl ether, some europium and some fluorescein!
I went to Sigma Aldrich and I bought some acetone, some butyl lithium, some carbon dioxide, some diethyl ether, some europium, some fluorescein and some gallium nitrate!
I went to Sigma Aldrich and I bought some acetone, some butyl lithium, some carbon dioxide, some diethyl ether, some europium, some fluorescein, some gallium nitrate and some helium!
I went to Sigma Aldrich and I bought some acetone, some butyl lithium, some carbon dioxide, some diethyl ether, some europium, some fluorescein, some gallium nitrate, some helium and some isophthalic acid!
I went to Sigma Aldrich and I bought some acetone, some butyl lithium, some carbon dioxide, some diethyl ether, some europium, some fluorescein, some gallium nitrate, some helium isophthalic acid and some Joules!
I went to Sigma Aldrich and I bought some acetone, some butyl lithium, some carbon dioxide, some diethyl ether, some europium, some fluorescein, some gallium nitrate, some helium isophthalic acid, some Joules and some kieselguhr!
I went to Sigma Aldrich and I bought some acetone, some butyl lithium, some carbon dioxide, some diethyl ether, some europium, some fluorescein, some gallium nitrate, some helium isophthalic acid, some Joules, some kieselguhr and some litmus paper!

I went to Sigma Aldrich and I bought some acetone, some butyl lithium, some carbon dioxide, some diethyl ether, some europium, some fluorescein, some gallium nitrate, some helium isophthalic acid, some Joules, some kieselguhr, some litmus paper and some magnesium ribbon!

I went to Sigma Aldrich and I bought some acetone, some butyl lithium, some carbon dioxide, some diethyl ether, some europium, some fluorescein, some gallium nitrate, some helium isophthalic acid, some Joules, some kieselguhr, some litmus paper, some magnesium ribbon and some niobium chloride!
I went to Sigma Aldrich and I bought some acetone, some butyl lithium, some carbon dioxide, some diethyl ether, some europium, some fluorescein, some gallium nitrate, some helium isophthalic acid, some Joules, some kieselguhr, some litmus paper, some magnesium ribbon, some niobium chloride and some osmium tetroxide!
I went to Sigma Aldrich and I bought some acetone, some butyl lithium, some carbon dioxide, some diethyl ether, some europium, some fluorescein, some gallium nitrate, some helium isophthalic acid, some Joules, some kieselguhr, some litmus paper, some magnesium ribbon, some niobium chloride, some osmium tetroxide and some potassium permanganate!
I went to Sigma Aldrich and I bought some acetone, some butyl lithium, some carbon dioxide, some diethyl ether, some europium, some fluorescein, some gallium nitrate, some helium isophthalic acid, some Joules, some kieselguhr, some litmus paper, some magnesium ribbon, some niobium chloride, some osmium tetroxide, some potassium permanganate and some quartz!
I went to Sigma Aldrich and I bought some acetone, some butyl lithium, some carbon dioxide, some diethyl ether, some europium, some fluorescein, some gallium nitrate, some helium isophthalic acid, some Joules, some kieselguhr, some litmus paper, some magnesium ribbon, some niobium chloride, some osmium tetroxide, some potassium permanganate, some quartz and some ruthenium acetylacetonate!
I went to Sigma Aldrich and I bought some acetone, some butyl lithium, some carbon dioxide, some diethyl ether, some europium, some fluorescein, some gallium nitrate, some helium isophthalic acid, some Joules, some kieselguhr, some litmus paper, some magnesium ribbon, some niobium chloride, some osmium tetroxide, some potassium permanganate, some quartz, some ruthenium acetylacetonate and some silica!
I went to Sigma Aldrich and I bought some acetone, some butyl lithium, some carbon dioxide, some diethyl ether, some europium, some fluorescein, some gallium nitrate, some helium isophthalic acid, some Joules, some kieselguhr, some litmus paper, some magnesium ribbon, some niobium chloride, some osmium tetroxide, some potassium permanganate, some quartz, some ruthenium acetylacetonate, some silica and some titanium dioxide!
I went to Sigma Aldrich and I bought some acetone, some butyl lithium, some carbon dioxide, some diethyl ether, some europium, some fluorescein, some gallium nitrate, some helium isophthalic acid, some Joules, some kieselguhr, some litmus paper, some magnesium ribbon, some niobium chloride, some osmium tetroxide, some potassium permanganate, some quartz, some ruthenium acetylacetonate, some silica, some titanium dioxide and some uranium!
I went to Sigma Aldrich and I bought some acetone, some butyl lithium, some carbon dioxide, some diethyl ether, some europium, some fluorescein, some gallium nitrate, some helium isophthalic acid, some Joules, some kieselguhr, some litmus paper, some magnesium ribbon, some niobium chloride, some osmium tetroxide, some potassium permanganate, some quartz, some ruthenium acetylacetonate, some silica, some titanium dioxide, some uranium and some vanadium chloride!
I went to Sigma Aldrich and I bought some acetone, some butyl lithium, some carbon dioxide, some diethyl ether, some europium, some fluorescein, some gallium nitrate, some helium isophthalic acid, some Joules, some kieselguhr, some litmus paper, some magnesium ribbon, some niobium chloride, some osmium tetroxide, some potassium permanganate, some quartz, some ruthenium acetylacetonate, some silica, some titanium dioxide, some uranium, some vanadium chloride and some water that’s heavy!
I went to Sigma Aldrich and I bought some acetone, some butyl lithium, some carbon dioxide, some diethyl ether, some europium, some fluorescein, some gallium nitrate, some helium isophthalic acid, some Joules, some kieselguhr, some litmus paper, some magnesium ribbon, some niobium chloride, some osmium tetroxide, some potassium permanganate, some quartz, some ruthenium acetylacetonate, some silica, some titanium dioxide, some uranium, some vanadium chloride, some water that’s heavy and some xylene!
I went to Sigma Aldrich and I bought some acetone, some butyl lithium, some carbon dioxide, some diethyl ether, some europium, some fluorescein, some gallium nitrate, some helium isophthalic acid, some Joules, some kieselguhr, some litmus paper, some magnesium ribbon, some niobium chloride, some osmium tetroxide, some potassium permanganate, some quartz, some ruthenium acetylacetonate, some silica, some titanium dioxide, some uranium, some vanadium chloride, some water that’s heavy, some xylene and some yttrium barium copper oxide!
I went to Sigma Aldrich and I bought some acetone, some butyl lithium, some carbon dioxide, some diethyl ether, some europium, some fluorescein, some gallium nitrate, some helium isophthalic acid, some Joules, some kieselguhr, some litmus paper, some magnesium ribbon, some niobium chloride, some osmium tetroxide, some potassium permanganate, some quartz, some ruthenium acetylacetonate, some silica, some titanium dioxide, some uranium, some vanadium chloride, some water that’s heavy, some xylene, some yttrium barium copper oxide and some zirconyl chloride oxtahydrate!

Congratulations! You made it, right ‘till the end!
I hope this poem makes this fun game a trend!
I’ll return to the lab with my new found motivation,
To collect my ligand by Buchner filtration.
Thank-you, truly for playing this game,
Ordering chemicals will never be the same!





My whiteboard





My whiteboard is my life:
I write my story and
draw my strife.

I make a mistake:
my eraser destroys it,
learning left in its wake.

What stories could that eraser tell?
Question, calculation and growth.
Will it hide what I won’t sell?

One day I noticed a smudge.
Even in desperate futility
the mark would not budge.

I stopped and considered:
“this mistake is a part of me,
for what reason? I am bewildered."

As people, we are continuous.
Smudges in our persona
are us, no matter how strenuous.

My whiteboard is me,
the eraser is my true flaw,
is this really the law?

Oops





Illuminated self





If I could travel time,
I would have committed hideous crimes,

Mingling the worlds of future, present and past,
Being superior to all, allowing few things to last,

I would have conquered humanity’s brain,
Hopping from world to world, driving everybody insane,

Wiping out the worries of life, living in the world of mine,
I wish it was plausible to travel time,

Though it’s hard, but I want to be eternal,
Throw me with the speed of light and I will be eternal,

This way I can happily travel time,
As photons of my soul would disperse every time,

I would turn into a particle as small and chunk,
The reality of my life would eventually flunk,

I would view life with different prospects,
No crimes this time and I will still be a suspect





Let's write a poem





//Let's write a poem
/**
* Copyright (c) 2016
Duncan Goudie
* Licensed under Creative Commons License
*/

while poem.progress not complete{

+ if coffee cup empty
++ fill coffee cup
+ increment poem by one word
+ review poem
+ if review = good
++ poem.progress = complete

}





Masters of science





The greats of science
There are so many
Equations and theories
They're ten a penny

From Einstein and Newton
To Rutherford and Bohr
All have contributed
Much more than a law

Inspiration for children
And adults alike
Masters of science
They saw the light

Understanding our world
They've helped us so
Now we see the wonders
Of the world we hope to know





What's mine is yours




I’ll give up my heart, because what’s mine is yours
And I’ll never leave your side, because I know I love you more

Wrap my arms around you and hold on tight
Protect you from sadness; it will be all right
They say more is better, but I just need you and me
But somewhere in between us, I struggle to believe

That hiding in the shadows at the dark end of the street
If I opened up to you, would you open up to me?

I’ll give up my heart, because what’s mine is yours
And I’ll never leave your side, because I know I love you more
Hold on to your hand, can’t let go anymore
And I’ll never leave your side, because I know I love you more

Locked up in chains, you know you’re never meant to leave
But if you love me like I love you, then I can be your key
I’m not going to rush you, because love’s my greatest fall
One day I’ve got you, then the next I’ve lost it all

If you give me your word, then I’ll give you my love
It’s hard to describe, when perfect’s not enough

I’ll give up my heart, because what’s mine is yours
And I’ll never leave your side, because I know I love you more
Hold on to your hand, can’t let go anymore
And I’ll never leave your side, because I know I love you more

Take all the time you need
Because I’m not going to rush you if you don’t rush me
I think you’re beautiful, but you don’t know it’s true
You’ll never love me, like I love you

I’ll give up my heart, because what’s mine is yours
And I’ll never leave your side, because I know I love you more
Hold on to your hand, can’t let go anymore
And I’ll never leave your side, because I know I love you more





The search for the truth




The World that surrounds us
I can’t understand
In all its complexity
We are free and restrained.

If you don’t believe me
I don’t really care
(Or are you from a journal
With an IF +10?)

No function, no pattern,
no law can explain,
the exact science of nature
that rules all this game.

But that will not stop us
curious creatures we are
and in the hunt for the truth
we are willing to expire.

I am for sure not an Einstein,
neither Turing nor Planck,
just a lonely scientist
with a pen and a pad!

A singularity of physics,
integrated with maths,
just a standard error
of statistics I am.

I won’t solve the big question
but I tell you my friend,
that at least a small piece
of this jigsaw I will place.





Beginning the End





I can't hold your hand but your with me-every single day
I can't touch your face but it's smiling-in that very special way
I can't kiss your lips but they whisper and ask us to be as one
I close my eyes and I'm smiling because my journey has just begun





Nevermore





Is there a word for that next cold breath when you briefly catch, out of the corner of your eye, someone you love being forgotten
and you let it go?
A crunch of snow from behind and the quiet brushing of powder from her hips;
A tired exhale -
One last vye for attention. I meet her gaze as the land splits.
And I let myself melt into the earth.
Without her.





Two beings





Two beings found their pathways intertwined,
Through empathy and appreciation, their coexistence would shine,
A balance of sacrifice and patience, partially,
Underpinned by hard work, rewarded by harmony.

Sustainability is key,

For Earth and humanities'
Continued prosperity.





A verse on maths, biology and futility





Six seeds sown

Five spread roots
Four start to show
Three sprout shoots
Two see the sun

One grows on





birds





The birds drive me insane,
when I'm ready to sweat maths like heavy rain
from various treetops I hear avian interruptions
their sounds are summations of sine wave functions
When their luscious harmonies accumulate and gain
the stable points vanish from my emotional phase plane

Some polar graph rotated around axis x
is a model of the surface of some bird's eggs
Take an arbitrary length and fluid depth
and I could construct some equivalence relation sets
describing some traits of species when I should be stressing
to apply mathematics to matters more pressing

Mechanical equations might one day save me rage
when a bird drops a processed cherry or poison berry
Just measure air resistance to stay a safe distance
from the goods dropped by these vandalous vertebrates
I still envy their freedom to go where they fancy
If only for one day I could join their authority

Would it not be hell to kick my way out of a calcified shell?
Robotic head movements may be unattractive
but I could receive the skill instinctive
to fly on a path of directional derivatives
inside the troposphere instead of being inhibited,
tethered to the floor by Newton's 2nd law





Our Tower




Our fathers rose onto their feet
and waded through the icy river
to reach for pebbles from its bed
that they tied to sticks
and made picks
to climb the mountain faraway
navigate its granite wrinkles
thrust their picks into the ground
and break off rocks to carry down
into the valley where they lived

With their mind they beheld the rocks
and saw the blocks inside the stone
and extracted them with tools
chipped their shape and size and measure
Released faces smooth and flat
Released edges straight and sharp
Out of shapeless mass of no intention
they made cubes of structural perfection

They laid a block onto the ground
of the grassland where they lived
And another one on top
And another over this
They fit their blocks in puzzles and locks
like the play of a small child
and rose their glistening stone tower
over the prehistoric marshland

But they have gone into the earth
Flowers grow out of their bones
The wind will blunt our tower's edges
the water will reduce it
it will crumble to the ground
and turn to sand
in the same river from whence it came
and nothing of it will remain

So why not please time's deathly will
why not pull it all apart
and live back down
on the ground
like children
forever in our garden?





If Textiles Were Students...





Yarn, yarn, yarn
That’s all that fibres do
Flax constantly procrastinates
Several trips to the loo

Silk lies on her bed
Flaunting her lustre galore
G&Ts and a lack of studying
“Work’s not for me”, she says, “What a bore!”

Student cutie, Miss Cotton
Sits with papers all over her desk
Gallons of water by her side
100% on every test

Kev-lar’s up at 5
Press-ups and protein shakes
Keeping to his military regime
Continuous self-affirmations, “I am a brute; I will not break!”

Poly and Ester sitting in the lounge
Numerous PowerPoints on their browser tabs
After five minutes of working
They agree, “A new outfit would be fab!”

Naughty Nylon comes along
“Well I have a date on Saturday”
Lusty Lycra follows shortly
“Ha! That’s your 10th this month – besides I’m more flexible than you anyway!”





Beauty autumn~ My Mum




From the golden yellowish sea pulled out a withered ginkgo leaf
Westerly wind blowing it like a baby cradle
Swinging to the right and left
Left to right
Enjoy the oncoming autumn
Gentle wind and faint cloud
Memory machine slowly get started
Slightly twitter!

Home waltz playing in my mind
Permeated with intense warm and happiness
Virtually take you close to my heart
Once upon a time I was the baby flowers in your hands
Fertilising, watering, culturing and growing
The movie with you kept playing day and night
Tens of thousands of deciduous thoughts kept reverberating
Inexplicably loneliness precipitated in my heart

I colored the autumn
But only black and white left
The beauty of the scenery can eternal?
Or like a brief fate between you and me?
Heart bleeding continuously forming a blood pool
Hidden pain in my heart who could pardon?
Autumn when you leave let my sad tears overflow my eyes
Dripping flame burns my heart

Four seasons cycling with strengths
Autumn was actually in my mind
In the day of your departure
Autumn in my heart was the missing clothes
The moment you close your eyes
The scene of surroundings freeze as your heart
Since childhood, I can only see you through autumn
And a face that will always stay in my heart

The sound of the nature is our chat serenade
Like you and me talking in different world
Tell you my emotions and unlimited love
Let me occasional cheer when staring at the autumn
Deep inside the sadness shuttle a happy field
Autumn leaves fluttering and dancing in the wind
I picked up the last one leaves, and said:
"Beauty autumn, my Mother!"





Of the joys and happiness of the scientist





It is the gift of men that they would choose
Rather than ignorance, the light and fire
That truth, reason and science can spark and sire
Which shreds the darkness of ages long gone, a noose
That is no less mortal than those of old.
Knowing, learning, and all the things we’re told
Our endeavors, those hours spent deciphering our books
Are riches of the poor, the highs of the lowest,
Turn cowards into braves,
seeds into a forest,
Make kings from slaves,
broaden our outlooks .
Not knowing is a sickness, and science its remedy,
Understanding a cure, illiteracy a tragedy.
How wonderful is the world to a man privy to its secrets?
What weapons could stand against knowledge? Bullets?
There is nothing to fear, for we stand on the shoulders of giants
All of us are knights of principles, champions of truth, heralds of wisdom,
All of us are drops of water, overwhelming, flowing into torrents.
All of us are bricks, gathered into temples, raised into a kingdom.





Heart of Electron





The moment I receive you light, I go up a level.
The second I enter your field, I begin to circle.

I will surround you, if you are the core.
Even after a million years, I won't get bored.
I will speed up, if you are an electric charge.
Like a steadfast soldier, towards you I will march.

I am negative while you are positive.
That's why I find you really attractive.
Heisenberg does not know my property.
But loving you is never my uncertainty.





The Bridge





Every bridge you see began as a thought,
And across each bridge so much we have brought,
We brought bright lights when the sun hides from sight,
We brought you appetites for megabytes,
Brought you heat to fight off the winter threat,
Brought the printing press then the internet,
We transmitted your voice around the globe,
We let your eye see the smallest microbe,
Then we showed it the furthest realms of space,
A window of light where this all takes place,
Gave weakened water crystal clarity,
We turned fiction into reality,
We fly the skies, everything is in reach,
The train brakes screech what a wonderful speech,
But our brakes are not on, forward we speed,
Faster and harder with mouths full of greed,
The tracks they are shaking so violently,
The passengers look on so silently,
The bridge we approach can’t handle our weight,
Earth is in torment, what will be its fate,
Every bridge began as ink from a pen,
We built, then destroyed, we will build again.





The flower





My sadness is not for losing money, neither betrayed by a lover
But am crying and bewail for a flower that earned abandoner
He saw how daylight invalidates pearls from the wings of aflutter
But he grabbed her till she laid in his fist, and return home as a singer
The flower can’t any more salutes the sunshine with a aglitter
The flower had better than the light bulb, toys and a container
Oh bleak flower, he will be throw you away shortly and forever
You lost your home, your smell and your lustre; spend your nights till the decomposer ....





The Pillows




She pushes open the room door.
she sees a total dark.
Somehow,
she feels uneasy and nervous.
Is this going to be a long night?
She switches on the room light,
she reveals the answer.
She sees
a big, cold room and a
lonely
king-sized bed.
She knows
it is a long night.

A sleepless night.
She smiles,
she has the whole bed to her own!
As usual.
She crawls onto the left side of the bed.
She rests her head on the flattened pillow on the left side of the bed.
She stares at the fluffy pillow on the right side of the bed.
She says,
Goodnight.
She closes her eyes
A torturing night
Begins.

They used to have each other
during happy times and hardships.
She was his dream.
She was the Sun in his night,
shining bright in his darkness.
She used to think
this is how their story ends.
But she did not know
Time is eternal.
Time lives longer than love.
Love dies
Before time dies.
Time is always patient
to slowly tell you tell the truth.

Since when,
the king-sized bed
can no longer hold
both of them
and their dreams.
Since when,
the fluffy pillow on the right side of the bed
can no longer hold
his promises,
his values,
and his love.
She can never share her pain with him
because he no longer belongs to her.
The fluffy pillow on the right side of the bed
is all that he has left for her.

Every night,
she sleeps her tears away.
her dream bleaches her pain away.
Just like how,
time fades his love away,
but never fades him from her heart away.
The tears soak into
the fluffy pillow on the left side of the bed.

The fluffy pillow on the left side of the bed
holds her tears
and wishes
that will never come true.

The tears and wishes
are so heavy
that
the fluffy pillow on the left side of the bed
flattens.

A flattened pillow,
Just like her marriage.





A Health and Safety Conundrum




The question is echoing in my head. The safety committee has a problem.
How to compel students to abide and leave the building before nine?
Here’s the story. Revising to be bright, a pregnant lady stayed through the night.
The question is echoing in my head. The health committee does not understand.
How without Why is senseless. And the Why is guileless. No choice.
At home, she has responsibilities, a family to care for kindly.
More, a conspiracy means resit is beyond her visa expiry.
She cannot fail the test. It would be a disgrace, a deadly infamy.
So she stays.

The question is echoing in my head. The safety committee has a problem.
How to compel researchers to abide and leave the building before nine?
Here’s the story. Experimenting as one might, a scholar stayed through the night.
The question is echoing in my head. The health committee does not understand.
How without Why is senseless. And the Why is guileless. No choice.
At work, he has responsibilities, fast delivery of novelty.
More, the study has to be ended before his funding expiry.
He cannot stop the test. It would be a waste, a lost discovery.
So he stays.

The question is echoing in my head. The safety committee has a problem.
How to compel people to abide and leave the building before nine?
Here’s the untold story. Discussing the matters, the committee is partly researchers.
The questions are echoing in my head. The other half would not understand.
How without Why is senseless. And the Why is guileless. We do not have the choice.
Policies are nice and shiny but some goals are contradictory.
More, the competition is restless and publishes fiercely.
We won’t leave. Work progress over safety. Here is the reality.
So we stay.





Lines Composed Whilst Drifting Away in Experiment 22




“I’m placing an order for a cup of clean water”
The demonstrator says to the lab.
“From this questionable juice, you must produce
Water, the lifeblood of man”

With no time to ask of this virtuous task,
We’re swiftly ushered aside.
Where to start with this glorious art,
Of chemical knowledge applied?

Commence with a beaker of water untreated
Turbidity ceasing lights route.
Colloids and humus obscuring the blueness,
All work in this jar to pollute.

To attempt to remove from their spiralling groove;
Add acid to give it a sting.
A pH of five should aim to provide,
The perfect milieu to begin.

Ferric and alum supplied by the gallon,
Are portioned by unerring pipette.
Let’s add a dose to make water less gross,
And put an end to this soluble threat.

Alas our transaction has little reaction,
And the water persists as a blur.
Rethink and refit; some revolutionary kit
Enter the flocculator.

Given a minute to rapidly spin it
Then slowly; another fifteen.
We see forming of flocs, like cumulus rocks
Whirling with stormy routine.

Currents and eddies diffuse; become steady
So sedimentation can start.
The maelstrom of muck, from the fluid unstuck,
Sinks softly until it departs.

A sample is taken with care not to awaken
The slurry that’s lying below.
The supernatant liquid is carefully lifted
Emitting salubrious glow.

Our transpicuous sample is a shining example
Of Chemistry’s vivified power.
A quick easy fix, a few drops and a mix,
From toxic to tea in an hour.





Molecules





That small tingle in the pit of your stomach
Which keeps you on the edge of your seat
An impulse that creates tension in your muscles
Or a feeling that isn’t so sweet

The love that we have for another person
Can be created by shapes and bonds
Some of which are chemical
And others that aren’t so strong

Waves of light, pigments and dyes
Make the deep vivid blue of the sea
The pale moon glowing white in the night sky
The green hue of the leaves on the trees

The earth is made up of molecules
Our feelings created by atoms
It doesn’t make them any less beautiful
Only a little bit harder to fathom





Chemical Breakup





Your hair,
Like a carbon nanotube,
Crisscross and static
Across my
Predominantly polyester bed.
My face
Sinking
Then squirming,
Neck-deep in thought.
Slow isomerization of my lips,
From a trans-skew
To a cis-sulk.
Split.
The air still holding remnants
Of the door slam,
Perhaps, faint waves
Exist
In other rooms
Of our exchange.
They may even shift
Atoms in my bones
For years to come





How I Live Now




Build Life,
Build love and remedy,
Build family and ecstasy,
Build a longer life span for every one of us,
Build cures for Polio, Tetanus and Smallpox,
Build the chance for a longer life,
Break the chance for a longer life,
Break families by futile deaths over pointless feuds,
Break bodies through harmful drugs and fast food,
Break happiness and health,
Break natural and yourself,
Break Life.

Build Conformity,
Build rules and routine,
Build rights and responsibility,
Build a safe environment by setting foundations,
Build a working society with national regulations,
Build the chance for peace,
Break the chance for peace,
Break the trust of each other as if we were fascist,
Break windows and walls by rejecting the masses,
Break safety and borders,
Break law and order,
Break Conformity.

Build Status
Build roles and tradition,
Build power and profession,
Build up your personal drive and motivation,
Build up an economy through dreams and aspiration,
Build the chance to grow as a person,
Break the chance to grow as a person,
Break confidence by making some feel like less,
Break someone’s worth due to prejudice,
Break value and wealth,
Break equality and self,
Break Status.

Build Freedom,
Build dreams and activity,
Build expression and creativity,
Build the opportunity for people to become anyone,
Build the possibility for people to become more than someone,
Build the chance to make a difference
Break the chance to make a difference
Break the minds of the people, who revolutionise the way we live,
Break the voice and minds of those who give,
Break thought and voice,
Break idea and choice,
Break Freedom.


Build Connection,
Build transport and phones,
Build the internet and homes,
Build globalisation to reach across the borders,
Build trading channels to move economies forward,
Build the chance to meet people
Break the chance to meet people
Break relationships when the sound of a phone cuts in,
Break down society with the touch of a button,
Break talking and meeting,
Break eating and greeting,
Break Connection.

Build Future,
Build the wall and door,
Build the window and floor,
Build technology which expands our mind,
Build exploration to see what else we can find,
Build the chance for a tomorrow
Break the chance for a tomorrow
Break the ozone from the hills of landfill creation,
Break the forest through deforestation
Break trees and leaves,
Break grass and seas,
Break Future.





Science is labelled magic





The wonder is not diluted,
By naming the process so,
What man fights for beneath the earth,
Which way the winds will blow.

To see stars form the spirit of men once lived
Their chemical consistency does not,
Take away from me
The beauty of the lot.

If Achilles is so great,
Then surely his sponge is too
We run we walk we swim we sleep
With hope to be sponge-like too.

If science is magic and magic is science
Then please let it be known
That men and women can only look up and wonder
is this magic our own.





Someday.





Some days I'll feel good,
but others I won't.
Some days I can cope,
but sometimes I don't.

Some days I smile,
but others I cry.
Some days I feel lost,
and I don't know why.

Some days I pray,
I can hold this weight.
Some days I drink,
to help me escape.

Some days they ask me,
'How are things with you?'
Some days I say 'fine',
when it is not true.

But one day I know,
despite all my falls,
the sum of my good days,
will out weigh them all.
I''ll break from this pattern,
of darkness I see.
Some days I'll feel good,
Someday I'll be free.





Much Ado About Carbon (Acrostic)





There once was a material called carbon,
He was ignited for a BBQ in the garden.
"Eek-sublimate!" he thought, but that's not what destiny brought…

Golly gosh-his electrons were excited!
Relishing pleasure as he was ignited.
And low and behold, what could be seen?
Photons with energies distinct as could be!
He tossed and he turned, but pleasure became pain
Electrons escaping that could not sustain.
Needing some help, he looked to the sky
Ending his life as pure element, O2 came by.

Crazy humans kept burning him: energy was their goal.
Every man on the planet only knew carbon as coal.
Nevertheless in Manchester, two scientists believed
That carbon had special properties never before conceived.
Ridiculous late night experiments with sticky tape and red wine
Eventually gave us graphene-the saviour of our time.





The Engineer





O how I wish I could be a little boy again
Playing in the terrain,
During a soothing summer rain
With no question in my brain
To pester me every night
Like a blight

I’ve always wanted to know
Why I’m here
Did someone mold me? Like a sculpture by Michelangelo?
Is someone controlling my life? Like a puppeteer?

Fellow engineers said I used to be nothing more than an ape
That there is no such creator who hears prayer
That I am free to shape myself however I like, into any shape
No one care

Knowledge of engineering tells me plenty
But shed naught on my difficulty
Yet I am sure of one thing
Of a celestial being
The universe king
Forever observing, forever designing





The Poisoning of G.sulf




Geobacter, Geobacter,
Here I am
Your cruel exactor,
Forcing you, without a fight,
To make me bio-magnetite.

You see it’s you who’ll work
(To death, maybe)
And I’ll stand and watch,
The show is free.

Open your nucleus and I will inspire,
You,
With the truth,
Of how you’ll expire:

I’ll catch you snoozing,
So carefree,
In warm storage
(30 degrees),
Only now you’ve got to wake up,
And see the fucking woods for the trees!

This relationship between us two,
Is a complex one at best,
The scientist and the microbe,
One puts the other to the test,
One’s gram negative and tiny,
A mighty mineral distiller,
The other,
(Late-log phase)
Becomes a sociopathic killer.

Yes, my poor, dear Geobacter,
I must play the malefactor,
Here’s some cobalt
Open wide!
Get this toxic shit inside!
(It’s a truth serum for raw knowledge you know,
For Geobacter’s truths about Co).

Sorry, sorry Geobacter,
I guess that cobalt was a factor,
In slowing your reduction rate,
Oh right,
I guess it wasn’t to your taste,
It’s all for science my good friend,
What’s that you say? When will it end?
Not yet, keep calm, I’ve got some questions,
So keep respiring, it’s time to listen.

Listen, little Geobacter,
Tell me now, are you the master
Of cycling metals in the ground?
And how long have you been around?

Who helped you,
When in Cuba,
You occupied the laterite?
And when did you first decide
Eat ferrics, shit ferrites?

You are ubiquitous
And resilient
And your impetus to reduce is, quite simply, brilliant
And I must admit, Geobacter,
You really do have a knack for,
Rocking pink and smelling better,
Than your cousin Shewanella,
(For which I am wholly glad,
Shewanella smells fucking bad)
But it’s sad because although the two of us have had a blast,
Today
Is your last.

Yes I know Geobacter,
You’re a reliable contractor,
It’s too late though
(For this batch)
I’ve already revealed to you the catch
There was cobalt in that iron sandwich
And now while I watch you languish,
Your every move will start to make up,
Some hot, fresh scientific data,
And then I’ll pour you down the sink,
(Haha)
But it really isn’t what you think.

It’s just Geobacter, me and you,
We have got some work to do
And remember it’s your lines I read,
So watch out next time when you feed!
Because I’ll stop poisoning you and your brothers,
When the meal reviews read, ‘No, not bothered.’





The no-revolution





No food, no pills
Our minds anxiety filled
Lines of zombies for what's left
Burglars trade the rest

At 6 pm go back home
For the predators might come
To get what's left
Or to shoot you in the chest

Still nothing happens, nothing will
We've been stolen, we are nil
We've been stolen our bravery
Fear turns into slavery.





Paleomania





Setting out to the beach feels good
Thought I knew much but only little
My bargain wasn’t that good
How much worse could this get only God knows
Failing again to keep count of the days

Whoa! How nicely the rocks are layered
Into spectacular trough-cross beds
Heavily fossilised to the west
It’s ammonitic, dates back a hundred and ten million years
The main fault runs from east to west
By morrow have some samples sent to lab for test

There and then comes the paleomania
Hypnotized by this melodrama ashore
The invisible hands of sleep beckons
Drifting in I felt I heard my own quirky snore
Into this old world I fall
Oblivious to the sea breeze that fans

And it all began to unfold
My love for the lithic brought me this far
Conflicted myself inside if I was alone on this line
I remembered the microbiologist with eyes glued to the microscope
Here I am a sane man at the beach counting waves
And noting down frequencies and modes

I could just watch the waves bundle back and forth
But here I am measuring dips and strikes of faults
Fun-seeking people around plying up and down
And some seated watch gravity cause waves rise and fall
Bikinis never far off, abs flouting close by
To me the beach arenites were the best
For they show good pores, the ones we like to explore

Whoa! My hands reaching for glowing fragment of seashell
Then I felt I heard someone calls
Something soft and wet touches and pats my lips
I opened my mouth waiting to tongue out
But it was waves that splashed water across as they advance even more
Just then my eyes snapped open to realise an hour has gone

Paleomania takes pride on its role
It’s more about how much oil subsea holds
But it’s clear so much could be lost looking in the past
Realising tomorrow’s Saturday and no samples can be sent to the lab
Paleomania really could be a confused mind
Or a geologist engrossed in the past and losing track of time





The Advent of Chloroform




The first human trial a cunning trick,
Of a synthesised compound organic,
A colourless, sweet smelling liquid,
The dinner guests asleep so quick,
CHCl3’s what’s in it,
And chloroform is what they called it.

Exciting new anaesthetic,
Produced by efforts scientific,
Initial findings - so terrific!
The effect generally soporific,
For dulling the senses, this stuff's prolific,
Not local no, that’s too specific.

Soak a rag and sniff and sniff it,
Then the dream world you will visit,
Mysterious, exquisite physic,
Forget all of your wounds horrific,
Amputation - blink you’ll miss it,
But sniff too much and you might kick it.





The Song Of That Which Is To Come (Eventually)




Eventually, our planet will be swallowed by the sun.
Eventually, we'll all live on the moon.
Eventually, the aliens will meet us.
Eventually, the universe will die.

Eventually, we'll prove the Earth had been flat all along.
Eventually, we'll all have sharks for hands.
Eventually, we'll find out how it all works.
Eventually, the universe will die.

Eventually, we'll find world peace, and all join hands as one.
Eventually, there'll be a nuclear war.
Eventually, someone will blow us all up.
Eventually, the universe will die.





The Life of a Carbon Fibre





Atoms align, and crystals form,
the carbon fibre tow is spun.
Whether woven in Basket, Twill or Plain,
High properties are found in the carbon atom chains.

In aeroplanes, cars and sometimes in space,
You'll find metal alloys all but replaced,
See carbon fibre is strong, light, and chemically resistant.
Its high impact strength and fracture toughness is consistent.

This is the material that I study and test,
looking for a technique to strengthen it the best.
Watching it crack, shatter and break,
Hearing the snapping sounds it makes.

A metal arm, pulling and twisting it thin,
Seeing the micro-cracking and fibre bridging begin.
The impactor crashes, breaking the skin,
Compressing and shearing the ply within.

And here I watch, this material die,
"It's in the name of Science and Engineering" I cry.
I am the observer,
the scientist,
the transcriber -

Of the life,
Of this carbon fibre





Shale





Black
Solid mud,
Tiny animal, plant, or bud.
Billions of bits of life,
Crushed, pressed to beds of strife.

Crack
Not enough,
The pathway, too long and tough.
Is the tension such a gain?
Too many see a way of pain.

Earth trembles
Is this true?
Stories, inflations, nothing new.

Gaseous Gold
Divides the nation.

Lights on or off, is that the call?
This simple rock, which splits us all.





what is spin





I mean, what even IS spin?
s(s+1)… ah damn I don’t know…
I might as well leave?
I have missed half the slide-show

This was going to be long winded,
but a proud poem about gravity.
but no one really gets that either.
are these words of profanity?

oh no wait!
a binary black hole system has shed ‘light’ on the situation
right thats it I'm definitely leaving,
I’ve got constipation (see Fundamentals of ‘solid state’ Physics).





What's the Matter?





to reduce uncertainty of climate change
knowledge of air and its composition will rearrange
particulate matter can seem strange

with measurements we probe and analyse
from these we test model equations and criticise
particulate matter getting wise

simulating particulate formation
allows estimates of make-up and concentration
particulate matter elation

but! the numerous particle processes
means even brilliant modellers are less at ease
particulate matter not appeased

so we start basic, models we simplify
finding the processes for which results amplify
particulate matter we retry

compare with measurements for realism
if correct then celebrate, if wrong then why the schism?
particulate matter please listen:

model and field mismatch makes me lament
rather than model fix shall we blame the measurement?
particulate matter entreatment





DNA: A Spiraling Story





A vital guidebook,
which must constantly adapt?
A most perplexing,
clue-riddled artefact?

This biomolecule offers glimpses,
into our evolutionary history,
Yet the birth of DNA,
remains a well-debated mystery.

Alternating phosphates and sugars,
run up its bony spine,
as two anti-parallel strands,
enchantingly entwine.

At the heart of the helix,
nucleotides grasp their harmonious base,
only to be torn apart,
in the replication race.

Unearthed by Watson and Crick,
as they debated in a pub,
pondering diffraction patterns,
over some decent Cambridge grub.

With a little help from Franklin,
they propose a double-helix composition,
securing a place in history,
their hard work finally sees fruition.

Researchers since,
made valiant attempts to crack the code,
with much we have learnt,
derived from the heartless nematode.

Now that we can say,
we're in the post-genomic era,
our understanding of DNA,
and genetics is much clearer.

The question then to pose,
is has it revolutionised the world?
Surely much of DNA's story,
is yet to be unfurled...





The Depression




Come quietly into this darkness
Don't struggle please, don't fight
It's easier to come gentle now
Just follow the dying of the light

Trust me, I won't hurt you
Keep tracing your footsteps in mine
Into this world of your own imagine
Where the fading sun doesn't shine

It seems that something found you here
I think it crept in with the night
Wandering this sodden, lonely place
Remaining close by, out of sight

That creature out there in the void
What if I said that it's you
All of the anger and the broken fears
You must have seen it was true

That beast I see in the cracks
It embodies the pain you create
Every waking night with vicious thoughts
The sadness, the blame and the hate

But don't worry, you're not leaving
Here with the tortures you've known
All hope of escaping has fled you
You're here with me now, all alone





Iterations





On greyscale afternoons
I slip into the familiar state,
Punch the numbers in
Again and again,
Buoyed by cosmic waves,
Chasing that elusive burst of technicolour.





Gulf of Mexico Oil Spill





A wave of darkness,
the fumes towering over the specs of life below.
A sea left in starkness,
oil smeared and continued to grow.

A thick blanket of smoke,
cries for help from life without a voice.
Nature herself left to choke.
Was it fair that she didn’t have a choice?

Help is on its way.
Days, weeks, months, how long with it take?
The deep blue, a colossal ashtray.
How honest was their mistake?





The Power we hold





Wake up, wake up and realise
We are one stone skip from Paradise
Condemning mistakes then waste, waste, waste
Trying for perfection forever in haste
Captured by some made up lives
In virtual worlds that hypnotise
Paranoid from Big Brother spies
The truth is free and cooked in lies
Look back, look back, we always do
And speculate futures already true
What other plan should we devise
Than to make Earth our paradise
But our actions do not follow suit
Hedonistic ways make a wasteful brute
Still our seeking nature shines through
As a children’s poem remains to prove
For curiosity killed the cat
But satisfaction brought it back
Then information made him fat
And wanting more, there he sat
Schrödinger put it in a box
Now we have a box that talks
A box for light, for sound, for fun
There could be a box for everyone
Install, scroll, click and win the game
Forget about life whilst chasing fame
The constant Earth, the Sun and tides
We’d use their help if we were wise
As Nature does we imitate
Parent and child it is innate
The land for us is always there
Providing what we forget to share
So forget that blog, post, video, tweet
Feel blessed for freedom and the food you eat
Now realise the power that you hold
Is more than just talking across the globe
It’s the speed of thought inside the mind
Create or destroy or choosing to be kind
It’s finding the answers when no one else cares
Or exploring a maze when no one else dares
It’s not saving random strangers or winning the lotto
It’s helping one mother care for children of tomorrow





Zero





To find its existence, it will be gone.
To leave it behind, every logic structure has fallen apart.

They say you are nothing and no value.
But I sense everything comes from you.
They say you are the emptiness and void.
Yet I see you are all the hidden possibilities.

When we try to catch you,
You show us the non-existence.
When we begin to forget you,
You seem to be there smiling.

Where are you, my dear one?
Reveal your truth to me.

“I am everywhere, therefore nowhere, now-here.
I am the determination yet denial.
I am the weight-less weight, height-less height,
Sound-less sound and distance in no-space.
I am the BE of NOT-BE.

I am the annihilation of the zero point energy field.
I am the equilibrium that every system desires.
I am the symmetric point that all must obey.
I am the Beginning and the End of time, space and energy.
I am the Origin and Ultimate of the Universe.

Everything comes from me and falls to me,
Together harmonies are formed.
I am both introduction and coda of symphonies,
For every melody needs its rests.

That every tear drops from the window of your soul,
Forget not those innocent smiles flowering in your heart.
Joy and Sorrow, together they are one, together they are me.

Though you regard them as opposite,
Indeed, I am the elimination of separation.
I am the provider of positivity and negativity,
I am the creator of two polarities.

Whosoever tries to find me, they are bound to fail,
For my truths are told in silence.
Do not indulge in the fooling of words,
Feel and you shall seek me here.

So I AM.
The Great Magnificent Mysterious Zero.”





Dilemmas of Life





Born into deceivingly simple world,

Being told to follow your dreams.

Study hard; work hard, be somebody,

Life seems daunting before it begins.

Three jobs, two children, and a dream,

Passion fades where responsibilities lies,

So much is expected in so little time.

Needing a release, a crazy, at times.

Yet afraid to disappoint.

In this punishing, unforgiving world,

Expecting perfect every time.

Is this life?

An ambiguous mystery,

Or a straightforward production line.

Where once gone, the world moves on, and so, it repeats.





k





constant, constant, everything’s a constant,
pressure,
volume, proportional, constant,
fresher fair, free pens, promotional,
constant.
starry skies, Brian Cox, televisual, constant
forces,
masses,
gravitational, constant,
lecture hall, Quiet please! Conversational, constant,
Don’t be late! Steady state, motivational, constant,
charges, vacuum, electrical, constant,
writing skills, referencing, Smith et al, constant,
banter-lads, fancy-dress, recreational, constant
catching- up ,blurry eyes, revisional, constant,
late nights, sorry prof! unpunctual, constant
last exam, out tonight, problematical, constant,
k , k!
Enough already!





The peculiar bird.





I came across a peculiar bird
It told me its story yet it spoke no words.
Its feathers tattered, its posture well
I was mesmerized, as if under a spell
Its voice exceptionally ordinary, yet its song unique
It flourished among its peers though physically weak
This bird I met, yes quite a strange one
The look in its eye, you could tell it had won ‘the prize’
It treads ever so lightly, yet it let its presence be known
Its body did not break even when thrown at with stones
Oh this bird, what could it be?
Its breed unbeknownst to me
A humming bird? Of course not, its song far too bittersweet
Our eyes meet as it approaches me
As with any bird I assert my authority
Waved my hand in the air as if I possessed a magic wand
Commanding this bird to disappear, to be gone
Yet it came back and brushed gently against my leg
Leaned on it for support
I kicked it away, and still it returned
Back and forth we did this, each time I resisted
Each time it came back, more determined than the last
I gave up. I let it lean, and lean it did



And then it began to sing a song
This song carried no rhythm no beat
Such a peculiar bird, would you not agree?
It sang and sang the same song over and over
It even began to tap its feet
What beat was this bird hearing?
Asked to confirm if others could hear it
None could, let alone took notice of this bird
And then without saying a single word
I watched this bird ignore its herd
As they all sang in tandem yet this bird ignored
Such a weird characteristic, to be admired or a flaw?
It sang its song and was not moved
After a while even I started humming its tune

Eventually I watched it fly away, this bird with tattered wings
Watched it fly so high as if he were king of the sky.
This bird, its breed unbeknownst to me
I could care less now what it could be
As now I see it would make no difference
All that matters is its’ tenacity and its resilience
Its breed could not justify what I saw
It cannot be caged so by definition can only soar
Though physically weak carried itself with its head high
Never have I met a bird with such pride
Now wherever I go I hum a tune
This tune with no rhythm or consistent beat
If you’re lucky you may even see me swing my feet
Bop my head shake my arms, can’t stay still in my seat
Listening to my own sound produced by me
And I’m dancing to it with nobody
A beat only I can quite catch and I think, I’m not sure it’s called being happy.





The Space Shuttle Challenger Disaster





Headed for Space, are we gonna’ be late?
Bad weather, haphazard, setbacks; will it be safe?
The cross winds are fierce; mother nature rogue and nomad-
her icy breath slithered on the launch pad.
Will the O-Ring seal? The engineers are concerned.
Yet managers bypass the risks.
The meeting is adjourned.

T=0.
Solid rocket boosters ignite.
The lioness of aviation launching into flight.
Tense fists relax as the challenger pierces through the sky-
a successful launch in the Nation’s watchful eye.
Seven astronauts heading to the space station.
“Rodger throttle up” their last known communication.

Then a supernova of smoke caused joyful faces to drain dark
as the rocket spiralled off course into a ballistic arc.
T=95.
Their heart’s frozen in purgatory.
Now the cloud of debris is plummeting towards the sea.
Did this Achilles heel cause the whole mission to collapse?
Could it have been avoided? Was it the O-Ring? Was it simply a mishap?





Dear son





You might say that it’s all about getting used to the rules
When you write down the matrix, you would get used to how to multiply.
Maybe you’ve heard that two for eight putting aside that two for tea,
When you start to say mama you would be used to what the world surround you say.

You would get used to how to differentiate,
And how to think upside down to integrate,
You’d glimpse on the C codes and might get rules of it
And how they call a function and make a class.

Maybe you’ve heard “let there be light” when you’re young, but you could have thought five days
are too soon to surprise you! But if you are willing to learn more,
soon after the universe was created, that the density of the light
dominated over the density of the matter, you can derive.

You would get used to how to convert the unit
or how to use calculator, rather.
you would draw Feynman diagrams and might get rules of it
and why neutrino should have mass

But not all the time the rules that you’ve learned work out,
There are exceptions of exceptions when you start to learn French
When you start to love someone
You’d be surprised that she always takes café latte
She sometimes wants to take hot chocolate

Dear son when the tears fall down from your eyes,
Remember that the flowers in the field need a gentle rain to bloom
Remember that the flowers fade and the seeds fall down
The next spring there will be a little sprout hoping the night to be gone and soon the morning would come,
Dear son remember that the one who knew you,
Before you were born is always is always near you,
Closer than your breath
closer than your breath.

The beautiful one is near.





Ode to Synthetic Biology





What is Synthetic Biology?
Is it similar to Astrology?
Maybe related to Graphology?
Or Phrenology?

No! Let’s explore Synthetic Biology in detail,
And see what this science does entail.

Through inspired by biotechnology,
Synthetic Biology is not only Biology,
SynBio is engineering, computing, planning,
Synthetic Biology is startling!

Synthetic Biology brings the bright future
Via its engineered right structure:
Future glowing trees,
Replacement of kidneys,
Urgent help to bees,
Manufacture of terpenes,
Novel artificial eyes,
Make humanity arise,
And will clear up the skies,
And will take our surprise!

But some people may despise it,
So biologists can prize it!
Making Round Tables global,
Drawing comics, and cartoons,
Making competitions, tunes –
They will face the music noble,
Nonjudgmental, always thoughtful.

They won’t leave it uneventful:
They’ll invite the pencil Masters,
Social scientists will come
And they make the public calm.
They will listen and explain,
What biologists attain,
That they won’t create a devil,
And they will combat the evil,
And diseases and menace,
They eliminate disgrace!

Many odes to be laid down,
As SynBio is at dawn.
Glorifying its existence,
Lets encourage its persistence,
And will not observe from distance,
But give it our assistance!

Oh, SynBio, make it happen,
Bring the brighter future now,
We will cherish and respect you,
And it is our last vow.





Superimposed





The first line of this poem was something I over-heard in my faculty library.

“I like my women how I like my coffee; black and strong”
Is the white noise which rolls around my head like dice
I twist it, scramble around, turn it on its edges, upside down-
Til its rusted and charred

To understand why I had to hear it
Why in my haven, my encrusted – entrusted – glass greenhouse
home of my education
A sanctuary of reconciliation
a palace of warm certification
sanctity
For me

Or why it took me by the throat in an icy grip
Or why no air escaped my lip
And why I felt it on my hips
- Heavy

I’ve only known these walls
never til now had pebbles hit the glass
They’ve jolted me
Scratched the surface screeching – but not breeching
Not wavering, this globe enclosed

My future
Enclosed in a night-time halo
Riddled with stars
Not so far off and not so unreal
Stepping out of its mystic shroud - wet, dewy and new-born –
And is grounded right here,
Right here in front of me.
It has a face - and its just like mine
Not so alien or grotesque
No warped features or mangled chest
But plain, easy and smiling.

I’d give, give to stamp you out
Wash you out, rinse through you
Like how I smooth out the
pricks my paper.

We are both watered by the same drain
We can grow to the same shade of green
But can these branches never wind or tussle?

And now to you, these pricks in my paper,
These pebbles,
This patriarchy

You are mindless to me

And you curl into your limits and your chamber now
Granted perpetual silence for a voice
Too familiar to us
And do you lack free speech?
You lost your free speech when you choked on your
Strong, black coffee.





I





You were thinking again, I see,
About how you can untangle this wiry mess.
Friends, and what’s right. Agitators of strife,
All entwined around a mind
Rife with fear, unchanging with time.
The constant amongst the evil and malign.

But that's not true, of course not,
You are changing too,
Over time, day to day.
The things you fear may never be the same,
In a year or two.
And perhaps consistency isn't desired;
The only true story is the one that lies.

Perhaps you felt the urge, the need,
To destroy the thing in which you believed.
At night, when the echoes are amplified,
You tried to find the value inside.
Yet intrinsic value is always consigned,
And can only be seen
With an outside eye.

You try to perceive the inner mind
Through contrived assonance and near-rhymes,
Indeed, instinct insists that it is inclined
To pursue crude use of techniques of this kind
Perhaps your life can’t be structured,
Precisely understood, carefully defined.

Nothing true can be constant,
Consistent, divine
Life is ill-realised, but by design.





Engineered Creation





Contorting over symbolic signs,
Recluse nights, weary incomprehension.
Eyelids flicker before the lines,
And yet, I soldier on with a mission.
Thrusting pen to paper, once more, once more,
In persistence, apprehension.
Once more, as close is the fore,
Never lose faith, make peace with patience.





Ascension, or a Barbarian Warlord Battles through the Fundament of Hades: A fantasy epic in seven parts.





Part I: Our antihero awakens in a darkened pit of despair, created when Thor, in wroth of the Devil’s mockery, plunged his fist into the ground and hurled the resulting ball of debris to punish him for his hubris upon the hilltops of Surrey.

When I awoke
To the bale-light of blackened fires
And the myriad reflections of daemons
Half-glimpsed from the corners of mine eyes.

A cavern, bathed in crimson hue,
The delights of this sordid realm.
It shifts as I stare
And it becomes a warped view of my own world.
I wonder how it all came to be,
How I arrived
And if I can leave.
I know that I shall try,
And if death be my reward, then it shall be deserved.

I reached instinctively for my blade…

The blade of tempered steel,
- And so my blade it came to be. -
Its grip inscribed with the names of the dead.
- And so my blade it came to me. –
Blessed by the light of the pantheon…
- And so my blade it came to be. –
Baptised in the blood of the coven…
- And so my blade it came to me. –
My companion through endless wanderings:
- And so my blade it came to be. -
Call to me, O fires ov demise!
- And so my blade it came to me. –
On endless nights, with nothing but the moon’s light to sing her songs to me,
- And so my blade it came to be. –
Whispers from its enchanted steel gave my hymns their name,
- And so my blade it came to me. -
And in midwinter, with deep snow images caressing my eyes,
- And so my blade it came to be. -
Its point rang true.
- And so my blade it came to me. –
When my village was threatened by man, by beast,
- And so my blade it came to be. –
Its voice sang as my people’s saviour.
- And so my blade it came to me. -
And when our chief required vengeance or conquest,
- And so my blade it came to be. -
My blade was ever his answer.
- And so my blade it came to me. –
A challenge brought forth:
- And so my blade it came to be. –
My blade, its reply.
- And so my blade it came to me. -
A mockery made:
- And so my blade it came to be. -
My blade, its silencing.
- And so my blade it came to me. –
I can recall now, the night of the warlock.
- And so my blade it came to be. –
He came to the village, and took our children.
- And so my blade it came to me. -
I followed him, and came to the henge where he had taken them.
- And so my blade it came to be. -
My blade saved them from his spells.
- And so my blade it came to me. –
And on Walpurgisnacht
- And so my blade it came to be. –
Did my blade keep the people safe.
- And so my blade it came to me. -

Ah!, the memories!
With my blade, they can return.
As a crystal ball
My mind’s eye begins to see:
Visions of a time past.
Before I had awakened
And why I awoke
In this place, the fundament,
Caves of Yggdrasil.
Heed not the words of those who
Presume to know all
Nor the tales spun by
The lay pretending wisdom.
Fools! And their foolish
Pride shall be revealed in time.
Benevolence died
With he who had guided us,
And he who followed
Had no right to the title.
At the moot declared:
“By your decree, you name me!”
Preceding the fall.
The men of cloth came and spoke,
He heard and obeyed,
A way against the forest.
Weak! To leave the Gods,
The old Gods with their power.
The trees, the rivers,
Our shrines and temples of Earth.
Under the stars we pray,
Not stave roofs before idols.
The villagers all,
As one, rallied to my call.
The plans were laid down.
But treachery, it bites deep,
And he heard of this,
And sent the foul informer
To do what was done.
Cowards! As I slept, the knife
Drained all my life-blood
For the crime of protecting
All that I hold dear.

I know now of why I am here,
And here I deserve to stay,
If I accept what happened.
Damned I shall be if I let this lie.
I shall return to the world above!
With my vengeance!
With my hatred!
I shall reign anew with fire and blood!
Where children once knew happiness,
Only long, cold winter’s nights.
Where mothers cradle children,
Dry tears shall be wept.
Where timbers fell to light fires,
Snow shall fall to sow misery.

Industry shall be replaced with idleness,
Love with frost.
Where sprites were once free to roam,
Daemons shall haunt their steps.
Clearings, once a pleasant light in a dark forest,
Shall only bring forth further horrors.
Springs of life, wells of contentment,
Shall now give freezing vapours.
Rolling hills shall become towering mountains.
Dells shall become impenetrable ravines.
Flowers shall wither,
Crops will fail,
And livestock will fall to disease.
I shall be plague.
I shall be war.
I shall be death.

Part II: A consequence of those dark satanic mills, now descended into a deeper despair, O what a human aspect of science and engineering this is!

As I walk, it is funny to wonder,
At how my surroundings all came to be.
Through all these industrialised heartlands,
The knowledge through which all these things can flow.
We wanted to know, we wanted to find,
We wanted to make money and to grow
Our legacy and our prosperity.
And so we sought out how these things will work.
The underpinnings of the Universe;
How we arrived, and how it all will end.

I pass lock gates, working ingenious,
The mills; the dark Satanic mills we hear.
From whence was carried the produce of old
From furnace of cities through country fair.
Similarly, the physicists brought forth all
The engineers needed for it to stand.
Life-force: where did it come from and where to go?
Power: how can we best devise its end?

This Hell is just a mirror of my world,
The world to which I know I must return.
I have unfinished work I must avenge
My death and the betrayal of my kin.

Part III: Confronting Lilith, a romance of lust and blood.

Industrial volcanos soon give way
To rolling pastures layered on with grass.
Over the hills for leagues and leagues I stray.
Is this Hell? It seems to have changed its mask.
As over ridge and over ridge again
A strange enchanting beauty, feel of home
Despite the beauty, it all feels the same
The warmness, at the witness of my own.
If I could, then all hours will be lost
To wander here and stay through all the years,
But as I start to think about the cost
A haunting melody comes to my ears.
A sonnet of seduction in this place
There Lilith stands, the Strange Woman of Grace.

“The Lamia! All hail to the Octet!
The All-Mother, and bride to Samael!
The future generations you have set,
And lives are all your tale you have to tell.
In parchments from the very dawn of time
Your story has been spread through Earth above.
Mother Earth, you summon these hills I climb,
In days gone by you seeded Earth with love
And taught to us all that you said you knew.
Within you is held mother and father,
Husband and bride. From you Icarus flew
Without you, he would have been just another.
The river sprites told me all about you;
Forest spirits whispered of your glory.
In your words now, tell to me your story.”

The names and titles seem to resonate,
This warrior is of the Northern clans.
He seeks to return to his homelands
A task begat of a power too great.
“Mortal! Do not think you can create
A hole in my defence. You think you can,
But you are mistaken. You lost your lands.
You lost your tribe. And now you’ve lost your state.
You reside in the roots of Yggdrasil
How wrong to think that all above will grieve,
The murderer thinks sweet for you to kill.
Here you are trapped, and here you shall remain.
Do not think that you can just up and leave,
The Underworld is no place for the sane.

“You want revenge! Here, you’re able to fight
For a whole age and more if you so wish.
I’ll gift you a horde to visit anguish
Upon your foes. Let none question your might.
All of your enemies will feel the bite
You shall be the wise to lead the foolish
By your command shall move, march the ghoulish.
The legions of daemonic death, the sight –
It shall be yours for all eternity.
Merely say the word and I’ll make it so.
Let quake those who hold you in enmity!
None here can stand against that which you’ll hold.
With me by your side I can help you show
Blind is the man to challenge rulers cold.”

“Fool! Witch! How could you feign to understand
And speak to me of what you believe of
My motives, or what force will guide my hand.
You know nothing of what happened above,
Nor of the thoughts that are inside my head.
Leave this place now, and tempt me no further!
Go and tempt some other poor soul instead,
Lest my sword ring out with new-found fervour.
Your empty promises have no power
Over the rightful barbarian king.
Yet I know of a magical tower
From which I can take all that you would bring.
Passed down, stories from centuries old lore
I know what I can find in Witch’s Tor.”

The Temptress here had stretched beyond her reach.
Punishment, she had now failed her master,
Hammer of judgement falls ever faster.
She knows she was a fool to try to keep
Then draw from his soul power she would leache.
Stolen from her mind, hanging from rafters
His murderer. He became a master
Her thoughts he had dared to challenge and seek.
Her thoughts are now his to know and to learn,
By what strange power he had gained this skill
A knowledge she could now only to yearn.
Temptress failed, and retribution is swift
The sword darts from scabbard to make clean kill.
Her head high in the air he now will lift.

Part IV: The dark legacy of Witch’s Tor, veiled by majestic surroundings of granite, imbued by the powers of Mica, Quartz and Feldspar.

Before me, amidst these swirling granite landscapes,
With mystic energies flying across the night-slopes,
Stand gaunt the mighty Terror Gates.
Locked within are all your mortal hopes.
None who have passed have returned,
And none who see them wish to enter.
Within, the druid’s cauldrons burned
At the five-fold star’s centre.
Daemons and petulant spirits plot
Malevolent plans to unleash.

This is the fortress two miles high
Atop a maintain itself of five.
At the summit faeries fly
To steal encroaching souls’ lives.
This is the bastion of Witch’s Tor
Build upon igneous foundations.
Whispered in the human realm’s folklore
In myriad culture’s variations.

Lilith, she claimed she had powers to grant
An army of unholy might
Daemons shall be mine to enchant
To join me in the final fight.
Warlocks! Bestow the power,
The power to fight the foe.
Witches! Hags of the Tower,
Give me knowledge no man should know.
Wizards! With magyks of arcane lore
Command the beasts to my force.
Druids! The enemies that I abhor,
Let me destroy those who oppose the Norse.

Now before me stands
A three-headed dog
Its fur shifts as the sands
And bears a halo of fog.
One tells of what will be,
Then swiftly disappears.
I heard not of what he sees
The mindfog will not clear.
The next speaks of the past,
Of what came to be.
The fog begins to pass
But soon returns to me.
The last says of the present:
“This mystery you won’t know.
You never will be Godsent,
But trapped down here, below.”
This vision has me enthralled,
I know not what it means.

The Tower’s tests are manifold,
I cannot tarry long
Lest visions take my soul
And the Sirens sing their song.

Now that the dog has left,
And with its meaning still unknown
My spirit is left bereft
When another vision I am shown.
I can see my homeland,
Wreathed in smoke and fire.
This is done by my hand,
And Hades’ will inspired.
A throne atop the mountains,
To rule over my realm.
The population all in chains
The rebels in the quelm.
This is the vengeance I seek,
And the Tor knows my mind
Speak not of the meek!
They shall inherit nothing.

On deamonwings I am flown
To the top of the Tor
Here foul winds are blown
Unto the Earth from the Daemon Door.
I speak of Lilith’s lie
To the shadow-cloaked figure.
And rune-bound oaths I tie
And the words’ power grows bigger.
The figure rules the Tor,
He grants a final vision.
“All that was Lilith’s is yours,
Commands this five-fold division.”

The hordes of the Pentagram
Are mine now to command.
In motion is the plan,
Blood shall be my reward!
I leave the Tor, the first to do so.
Daemonic power imbibed in my sword.


Part V: The thorny bush of torment, enclosing the living corpses of all those who forsook their souls. Cry not for these minds, for they gave their spirits away long ago, and here their journey ended, as it was said they would.

Before me now there is a bush
And upon there bush there are some thorns.
Each thorn a meter long and stained with blood.
A just reward for its victims.

Upon each thorn there lies a corpse
Writhing in their own perpetual pain.
This is the plant of which the legends tell,
The plant of those who sold their souls
In the vain hope of some respite
Of their mortal misery.

Misery they know now more than ever,
And in life they knew it more than most.
They had no-one to reach out for,
And the torment was their bedfellow at night.
The stars would ever whirl overhead,
And the ages of time pass them by,
But inwardly, nothing would change.

I catch the eye of one of the souls,
And Lilith’s lie becomes clearer than ever.
No joy did this man know at my demise,
He saw it all before the end.
He destroyed my village’s salvation,
And knows this salvation is now its doom.

Pity strikes my heart as I begin to hue at the plant.
Each corpse now spared for a second time the pain of existence.
The rotting corpses thank me in their silent cries,
And the five-fold legion becomes six-fold.
Mercy, it seems, is the key to Power
Where some here are concerned.

Part VI: The crossing of the mighty Styx, wherein the souls of all who failed lie, their torments a lesson to those who heeded not the warning.

Coutryside to Forest; Forest to Mountain;
Hades is ever shifting; its landscapes are never the same.
And soon I come to a feature I know all too well.
The river is screaming
From the souls who were once scheming
To save their penny for the one journey they could not sell.

The ferryman, he greets me,
He knows where I have been.
The crossing now he’ll take me,
But he knows I cannot return.
His boat with fire burns
But sinks not, I can see.
The penny I spend
It’s all I can lend
Crossing the river of souls.
With rotted oar
The ferry bore
Lost spirits to their goals.

As we sail
Skeletal hands flail
And threaten to pull me in.
But the ferry will still bear,
And the fate I will not share
With the lost ones held within.
They tried to cross
Without a loss
Of the one thing they still owned.
Was it worth the cost
For what they now lost?
The dignity, by birthright loaned.
I hear one call,
“From Purgatory fall!”
She failed in her quest.
For just a coin,
The only coin,
She could now be at rest.

The oarsman heave
To aid my leave,
The Heaven known as Hell.
I know the sound
We’ve run aground
I hear the toll of the bell.

The ferryman tries
To his surprise
(This is the first time this occurred)
To leave the bank
Of sinners sank
For the fate that they preferred.
We drift off again!
On this floating pen
Writing my course through the Styx.
The stench of decay
Stays across the whole way
And in my nostrils it sticks.

I reach with pride
The other side
The bloodied Mortal teach.
And all my fears
As Purgatory nears
And the lesson to those it teach.
The boat is gone
The hope it shone,
The ferryman disappears.
And I climb with hate
To the Mortal gate:
The hour of vengeance is here!

Part VII: Arise, O warrior, to the surface, and take what is rightfully thine!

The Mortal soil starts to burn
As darkness heralds my return.
The Sun abandons its new dawn
As my undead legions start to spawn.
Trees cry as Satan casts a spell
Granting me legions from Hell.
And as I step through the gates,
Reality starts to break.

I look upon my summoned horde
And call them forward with my sword.
My village is the first to fall,
No mercy was shown to any at all.
I heard my children as they died
The price I pay for my demise.
Still he evades me, the coward runs.
But I know to him justice will come.
One by one the nations cede
No God to save them in their hour of need.
The Earthly realm he has left,
And now this world is bereft
Of any form of Holy salvation
A dark, bitter anticipation.

In the final hour I meet him there,
With fear, his wide eyes stare.
“How could you have ever come back?
You were dead! None can come back!”
I came for you, I loudly think
And he merely slowly blinks.
My sword, still blooded,
Its handle further studded
By the names of all people on Earth
Ever given a Mortal birth.
I wipe from time his very name,
And take my place, the ruler of this domain.





Embodiement





"Let there be light"
your word besieged my freedom of nonexistence,
your power compelled me to create you:
Let there be me.

A sculpture of my inner sanctum shall I become
To be a mere illusion of the world of forms.
Temple of sublime abhorrs me, Pygmalion, of
Not to be a dream which loves to form the world.





Scientists’ World





One day
I want to be Galileo observing planets
Another day Kepler discovering the elliptical orbits around the sun
Why not to be Descartes?
Lets draw the Cartesian coordinate system.
I haven’t forgotten Newton.
We should watch with my own telescope Pluto
Think about being Euler
And define the function term.
Later I want to be Gauss
and write “Disquisitiones Arithmeticae” in my house
One day becoming René Maurice Fréchet
Sounds like a maths prophet
One day David Hilbert
With the invention of my own space
Called with the name Hilbert.
Next I would like to be Alan Turing
Save the country with my coding
I want to see the whole world
From different scientists’ eyes
Maybe then I could see different skies





Tripoli





A poetry student from Tripoli
Had chosen her course rather dippily
For she much preferred circuits
To haiku and couplets
So she formally transferred to EEE





State of Mind




Petrified in a Monday emotion.

flowing with uncertainty and boredom.

I contemplate on the yesterday that I can’t present to the present. as if to gift myself would be an affront to universal health, for my wealth is on Santa’s naughty list, and coal is all I get to colour my soul.

Maybe I am just being cynical, "looking through Foggy glass", and I just have to evaporate the over exaggerated smoke, and poke my head out into the supposed sun light, take flight, and see to what height I can rise; before, the lord of the flies catches up to my hide, and forces me to hide, but even though. I do not feel fear; I should be clearly scared, but even with my dank, dark, mind; I find, that someone sees a light that resides inside.

a friend;
with them I can defend against my trend to blend the resplendent with the unpleasant until its bland.
thank you my friend,
you all have changed my human condition, and given me the ambition to envision the yesterday I, so longed for, and have gifted me with the present.





A Different Kind of Poet




Ask me what I study at University and I’ll tell you I study poetry.

Ask me what modules do I take and I know you’ll be surprised
Because instead to Literature and History, Creative Writing or Theory and Text
I’ll tell you I take Garment Technology, Fashion Function and Aesthetics and Raw Materials for Fashion.

You’ll tell me I won’t be a master of
English words and I’ll tell you that you’re right
But instead I’ll tell you that I will be a warrior of the sewing machine, the weaving loom and ruler over the kingdom of the Dye House.

You’ll tell me that I won’t have to deal with metaphors… and this time I’ll have to tell you that you’re wrong
Because nothing says creation and birth louder than two interlacing two sets of yarns that cross each other, giving birth to a fabric
Two souls crossing each other’s lives giving birth to another one.

You’ll tell me that all this things are physical and I’ll tell you that perhaps you are right.

You’ll then tell me that there’s no fiction I have to get my head around in class and I’ll be extremely sorry for having to disagree with you once again
Because I’ll tell you it’s the magic inside the molecules of wool that makes winter nights feel like summer.

You’ll then tell me at least I don’t have to worry about Classics and I’ll tell you that the Bombyx Mori is as ancient as Sappho and that silk flows on the body as freely as her verses on papyrus paper.

You’ll then finally tell me that I study in the Faculty of Engineering and Physical Sciences and that implicitly makes me an engineer
I’ll tell you that perhaps you’re right…

But I’ll ask you now:
Aren’t we, engineers, just a different kind of poets?





Schrödinger's Nicer Neighbour





Jack's cat could eat no fat
Nor could it eat any lean
So he borrowed a box to cover the dish
And Behold! The platter was clean





Thoughts of a Dying Atheist





You are a chip of toenail on the foot of a crawling beast
who wonders down the trail of time by path of resistance least
so kick and scream into the night you'll never have your way
oh wonder on ye mighty beast there is no break of day

It rears its head about to look behind from whence it came
but the marks of its own footprint times hands rush in and claim
for the past it owes you nothing and nothing it will pay
but one shouldn't be offended if there is no break of day

Deviant views are torn off by the beasts great twitching claws
and so your base convictions are those the beast affords
be about your fathers business and upon this earth you'll stay
it doesn't matter how you die there is no break of day

Each miracle of new life is the clumsy step of fate
into a generation it can more easily sedate
so innocent so unaware these laughing children play
this innocense from ignorance will soon fade away
In the end we all will learn there is no break of day

An atom divided cannot stand, the beast will tear itself apart
in the course of an eternity it will be forgotten in the dark
until then raise your eyes to view celestial array
and then it will not matter that there is no break of day





A Modern World




I went to the woods this evening,
A particular place,
A place that is remote
A place only I know.
But still,
Locate in iPhotos.
And, no doubt iCloud.
You can try iMessage or Facebook,
You know how to track me.

It’s funny:
Technology is born and ever-growing
He shoots up. Builds an empire.
Fogging like the big smoke he
Is peering down on society
Peevishly.
You are never truly alone.

We sulk and moan still.
Of course, we are right to
Question why there is
A lack of protection:
Of safety and security
For every person:
Young, old
Education, No education
House, No house.

We are told how to speak, act
And do.
Do not question. We are lucky.
Consider the poverty:
Ethiopia,
Cambodia,

Yes. We are separate from ‘them’.

We continue to fight in wars
With no understanding or awareness for
Anyone that is affected.
Can we continue to blame the Media -
A lazy presentation?

I ask for more information.
But, it’s okay.
A modern technology. A modern world.
It is an insult to ask.





Hiroshima Haiku





Evil little boy
Got lost on the wide island
Can we forgive him?

EXPLANATION: Haiku is a form of Japanese poetry that is 3 lines long, lines 1 and 3 consist of 5 syllables and line 2 is made up of 7 syllables. This poem is written is the perspective of the Japanese following the atomic bomb attacks on Hiroshima. ‘Evil little boy’ refers to the name of the Uranium atomic bomb ‘little boy’ or could also be used to describe Harry S. Truman, the US president at the time who commissioned the attack.
Hiroshima in Japanese translates to ‘the wide island’ in English but this line could also commemorate how the president got lost on his wide platform of power which led him to launch the attack.





Are we equal or are we more than?





Are we equal,
Or are we more than?

We speak of equations,
But all I derive are inequalities.
We speak of summation,
But every problem seems imbued with division.

Each of us are unique expressions of life,
A life made up of an infinite series of variables,
A life made up of an expansive collection of sets,
A Venn diagram of experiences and knowledge,
Both wholly unique,
And completely ubiquitous.

And yet, so quickly,
Seemingly at relativistic speeds,
We judge.
We shame.
We bias.
We hurt.

Too often separating ourselves,
Dividing ourselves into our narrowly selected subsets,
Race, gender, sexuality, class.

Too focused on the complement sets of others,
Ignoring the wealth of intersection that lies between us,
Blind to our overarching union,
Ignorant to our membership in the objective universal set.

Refusing to see each other as a whole,
We dissect our being by 360,
We narrow our focus to each varying degree,
To each 0.0175 radians of difference.

Prejudice – a seemingly omnipresent entity,
The background radiation of our social universe,
It penetrates all in its wake.
And a love for science and maths, not withholding,
It pervades this gracious edifice too.

To those aware,
It screeches with amplitudes in excess of 150 dB,
Sound waves so strong – if, you can hear them.

Perhaps we’re all mostly deaf,
Perhaps we do not hear because we cannot hear,
Perhaps prejudice with its inaudible yells,
It’s 20.1kHz frequency of noise,
Is simply out of range to most.





Undergrad Lab Rotation





Demonstrator sits, head in hand,
marking books. Students don’t understand
what is wanted from them, that much is clear.
They all want firsts, they’re nowhere near.

Student sits, head in hand,
writing a lab report. They don’t understand,
what to do with all this stuff.
They followed the recipe, surely that was enough?

As the years go by, the students learn
how to do it all. It becomes their turn
to embark upon a PhD,
where they demonstrate, for a fee.

As a demonstrator they sit, head in hand,
marking books. They can’t understand
how the works so wrong, all the help they had.
Surely they were never that bad?





Passion





Passion is what will make you to do the impossible
It has been the common denominator among the best minds
Rutherford, Tesla, Mozart, Turing
Notorious examples of how passion turns you on a special human being
Passion about what you love is pure fuel for the unstoppable,
Allows you to move mountains
Tear down and change paradigms
Please ! Embrace the passion in your soul and heart
And the result of your work will be pure art.





Future





The more I learn,
The more I know new thing.

The more I know new thing,
The more I improve.

The more I improve,
The more I creative.

The more I creative,
The more I acknowledge.

The more I acknowledge,
The more I grow up.

The more I grow up,
The more I ready to face future.





Gravitas





As twinned beasts converge,
Burning brighter than all stars.
Listen, a ripple.





Ode to Wright





Tiny flutters of abstract passion
Theories formed, after a fashion
The seer to skymen.

With machinations of machines
With the method and means
Will man dismiss mountain?

Against public opinion
Sketch counterfeit pinion
Silence squawking rumours of onset madness
All with a dove formed from spruce and canvas.

All appraised and assessed
With the bird at its best
Through trial, test and retest
The time has come, to flit the nest.

Look upon in great anticipation
Have hope in your heart, but don’t be naive
You are but a step in a grand formation
You are but a stitch in a history’s weave
You are what legacy you struggled to leave.





Oh dear, what can this solvent be?





To the tune of “Oh dear, what can the matter be?”

Sniff, sniff, what can this solvent be?
Sniff, sniff, what can this solvent be?
Sniff, sniff, what can this solvent be,
In my beaker right here.

Someone please help me, I’m feeling quite dizzy.
My vision is blurring, my brain feels all fizzy.
I remember the scent and all becomes clear…
Chloroform’s in my beaker right here.





Growing





We loved,
knowing,
so it was love.
We hated,
and realized,
hate origins from love.
Those boys ,
show me growing.
Those girls,
show me love.





Time to breathe





Life has been tragic,
Getting to know more, tends to be daunting,
Giving up seems much easier,
But life needs to be lived to its fullest;

Never thought of the hope and peace in it,
Never dreamt of the colourful future it brings,
Hopelessness and mischief becomes the order of each day,
But life needs to be lived to its fullest;

Things fall apart and seem not to be brought together again,
The glory departs and the sunshine fades away,
The unknown becomes reality as the day goes by,
But life needs to be lived to its fullest.

Beauty glows as it takes it shape,
The scenery gives its unfading glory,
The laughter sounds louder than ever,
But life needs to be lived to its fullest.





Hypercubic Shadow




I used to fly in four dimensions
streaking back and forth from strings and planes
with what was only dreamt intentions
then thought to be uncharted lanes
that lie waiting in hopes of a traveller there passing
shall wander down one snaking deeper into
temporal caverns, each tensor harassing
each flexion amassing such thoughts to pursue
the crossing of paths of particular waves
that meet in time with relative ease
such as to palpitate a heart that craves
recurring to functions at higher degrees
yet gravitating light has blinded me so
such that all I saw were massive distortions
for measurements made in lensed faint glow
have made me digress into painful contortions
such that time now flows in it's wanton ways
mocking me in whiles of entropic reversal
yet also drawing parallels with projected rays
while clouding the instant of photonic dispersal.
To float in seas of murmurs unseen
with light that flows from directions unknown
casting shadows too deep in a membranous screen
of a hypercube so strategically sewn
into the existence of this monotone.





A poem about us





Countless pieces shattered at random.
Between them voids of immense size.
In the vast a pale blue dot,
a pale blue dot where giants rise.

Giants is what we name ourselves,
Gods are what we strive to be,
yet when said we rose from apes,
some of us still disagree.

We live in a realm where ignorance is bliss,
where the poor are more generous than the rich,
where the ethics is overwhelmed by greed,
and shall our egos be touched, our skins will itch.

We look in the sky and dream of worlds,
yet pay no attention of havocking our own.
We die in wars waged over petty lands,
only to avail the ambitions of the throne.

Violence we fear, but practice for fun.
Inspire it for the skin being black or white.
We argue if your god is better than mine,
thus we retrogress and fail to unite.

And as long as we discern gay as foul,
and a man sees a woman unequal,
the dream of liberty will not prevail,
leaving mankind without a sequel.

But then there is what we call human,
we help each other in times of need,
sacrifice own joy for our loved ones,
only hoping they’ll pursue our creed.

And then life will forge a mountain,
hang it on our fragile souls.
They might break, but heal again,
stronger to attain our goals.

When we’re hit, we harden up.
After fall, we rise again.
On the verge, we adapt.
Never to expire in vain.

Tomorrow the sun will shine anew,
the world will keep living on.
Solely if we persist the hits,
dim eyes will see the oblivion.





Purple rain





There was a Masters student named Pete,
His application of chemistry was offbeat,
With Permanganate oxidation,
Came danger and trepidation,
Slow addition would have worked a treat.





I think I might be a robot





I think I might be a robot

Marching along a designated path
Constant and continuous
Right foot, left foot, right foot, left foot

I think I might be a robot

An exhausted robot
Fatigued and strained
Right foot, left foot, right foot, left foot
My own steps irritate me
Hurting and shrinking me
Smaller
Right foot, left foot, right foot, left foot
And smaller

I don't want to do this anymore, I whisper
Right foot, left foot, right foot
Stop, I ask
Right foot, left foot
Please, I beg
Stop! I scream
Right foot, left foot

They won't let me
Ever smaller every step
But I can't stop

I think I might be a robot

Right foot, left foot, right foot, left foot

I think I am a robot





one more question





i was told science held answers
answers to my questions
the why and the how
and sometimes
the who

that governs our universe
my world and yours
the law that governs
us all
which we all abide

shocked that I was
by the facts
but more
by the questions
from one to another

the answers
they cannot quench
the thirst
for I am greedy
and a bit more

now here I am
to apply these questions
for this science to convenient
my world and yours
where do I start, engineering





Compiler





I thought all my code was perfected
With nothing that could be corrected
All the code in my file
Would simply compile
"Warning: Syntax Error Detected"





Fresh Prince of Manchest-air





(Sung to the Fresh Prince of Bel Air theme)

Now, this is a story all about how
My life got flipped-turned upside down
And I’d like to take a minute
Just sit right there
I’ll tell you how I became the prince of a town called Manchest-Air

In Uni Park Nottingham born and raised
On the lab-bench was where I spent most of my days
Weighin’ out mixin’ up refluxin’ all cool
And all fire-drillin’ outside of the chemistry school
When the Dean of Science was up to no good
Started switching funding and where my project stood
He got one massive offer and my boss got snared
He said ‘You’re movin’ with your lab-group to Manchest-air’

We begged and we pleaded with him day after day
But we packed up the lab and were sent on our way
He gave me a van and we packed it right to the brim
I looked at the radio and thought ‘I hope this ain’t a whim’

M6, yo this is a glitch
‘Vote pies!’ scrawled on top of a bridge
Is this what the people of Manchest-Air living like?
Hmm this might be alright…

But wait I hear its rainy, stormy, all that
Is that the type of place he can just send a lab rat?
I don’t think so
I’ll see when I get there
I hope they’re prepared for the prince of Manchest-air

Well, the van parked and when we came out
There was a dude who looked like Prof standing there with my name out
I ain’t trying to get assessed yet
I just got here
I sprang with the quickness like lightening, disappeared

I signalled a bus and when it came near
The bus blind said ‘Uni’ and the magic was here
And the journey was no more than a £1 fare!
But I thought ‘Nah, forget it’ – ‘Yo, home to Manchest-air’

I pulled up to the school all melancholy
And I yelled to the driver ‘Yo, you got a brolly?’
I looked at my kingdom
I was finally there
To sit in my lab as the Prince of Manchest-air





How to build a chemical engineer: the dada approach




Grab a piece of paper and a pencil
Draw a wrench
Then a hard hat
And finally a lab coat
Put that piece of paper on a table
Then go to your bookshelf
Bring Kreyszig’s “Advanced Engineering Mathematics”
And Bird’s “Transport Phenomena”
But one at once, cause they’re quite heavy
Place them next to that piece of paper
You’re almost done! Just add your health&safety manual cause no one likes things blowing up
Leave everything there to melt like in one of Salvador Dali’s paintings.
Come back in a couple of hours.
Place the resulting viscous mixture in a storage tank
Then spill it out using a positive displacement pump.
Voila! You’ve ended up with a chemical engineer
Not as talkative as a politician, but better at dealing with world’s existing problems
And you’ve only had to defy the laws of thermodynamics





I am no poet





I’m no poet but I’ve watched all the Star Wars

May the mass times acceleration be with you

Though I know a lot about cars,

My humor wouldn’t get a 2:2


I’m no poet but I can quantitatively calculate the circumference of a circle

That’s just to prove I can use alliteration

Though I’m not very verbal

With pretty girls I try and make conversation


I’m no poet but I can speak Spanish, Italian, French and in Joules

Some say those are the languages of love

Though I try to play by the rules

From a lab I once stole a safety glove


I’m no poet but my University discovered graphene

I can use simple ABAB rhymes

The Charpy pendulum is my favourite machine

A screw dislocation glides and an edge one climbs


And as you will soon see

AABB rhyming is no problem to me

Grinding and polishing a sample are part of my day

Yet, living in Fallowfield, north campus is a long way away


I’m no poet and have Design instead of a dissertation

I’m no poet but understand the technique called repetition

I’m no poet and don’t have many lectures in the Tin Can

I’m no poet but maybe I am





Numbers





From the beginning we pursue
the elusive fragments of infinity.
We start by counting pebbles
and apples and sticks.

We try to capture them in paper.
They still run free and we follow them
as we follow fading comets.

They whisper to us
and we construct,
as dreaming children,
cities and ships,
rockets, temples,
theories, theologies,
microscopes, telescopes,
headaches and wonders
to touch them for a second.
And they laugh amused and watching.
For they, since we are born,
are born within us.





First Impressions





Ascribe a label,
Tally individual,
“They’re just one of them.”





Unconventionals - another planet





Another planet

How to fix the world, if all the world is fixed
Not now, not yet, not this millennia, not next
What we want is perfect, what we want is purposeful
What we want wants to grow, not lay around like snow
What will we want when the world is fixed
A bio amp swelling our capacity past a steam train fleet
Course correcting, of course, no point adding to a proliferation peak
If one can do the job and not bring about the destruction of the world
What will ten do, when we are entering this brave new world
Will it solve or desist, nourish or renounce, prove or disprove
Will it fix the world if all the world is fixed





However, now





The rustle of the wind, then the silence is expected but never satisfies.
The mocking birds finish their tune yet that still does not bring the satisfaction.
Maybe after the crickets rest their legs, a single peaceful moment can be enjoyed?
No one can see it coming.

Suddenly
engines roar through forests
hammers crash down on construction
rockets boom out of sight
tyres screech into the night
sirens scream their presence
phones bing for attention.

However, now
Tokyo can whisper to London
Moscow can shout at Washington
A single buzz can diminish 1000 kilometres in sight and sound
and no one saw it coming.
Days of travel reduced to hours!

This lack of satisfaction of the past does not relate today. What we accept as stillness has shifted. for both connections and unity.
And no one can see what's coming.





The Mathematical Story of love





In a world filled with variables and uncertainties,
the relationship between the length and the diameter
of a circle, π (Pi), was moving in the vicinity of a wormhole,
traveling from the Whirlpool, through Andromeda,
until reaching the Milky Way.

A very tangential day,
π came across a set of starts,
in which, one of them caught his infinite attention.
She seemed the perfect figure, with her spiral eyes,
trapezoidal mouth, rectangular body and spheroidal legs.
π wanted to meet and make with her a parallel life,
until they met in the mystery of infinity.

Approaching her at the cube root of the speed of light,
π asked her with radical anxiety:
-Who are you?-
-I am the mathematical constant 2.7182818284…
but you can just call me e.

After having discovered that they were
(which in arithmetic corresponds to twin souls)
irrational to each other,
they began to bond as fast as the photons
moves in the micro space.

In an instance, they felt attracted
as the gravitational field of a black hole does,
even its infinite decimals could not escape of it.
They scandalized Euclidean and Newtonian
formulas of the infinite Universe.

The capacitors and inductors that thought differently
supported their electrically perfect equation of love.
Together π and e, started an integral and differential happiness.
Their equilibrium was as perfect as
the balance of the pH with a base is,
and as much as the inherent strength of a graphene does.

However on a breakdown of space-time,
appeared the greatest common divisor offering her,
an absolute greatness and reduced her,
to a common denominator.
Instantaneously between π and e,
an open circuit showed up,
and their love could not flow anymore,
even the short circuit wanted to help,
but there was no connection that they could make.

They were not proportionally equivalent anymore,
instead they became like something in Gabriel's Horn,
she could try to approach him as much as she wants,
but she will not be with π in her real life,
as the asymptotes does, they would come close enough,
but they will never cross anymore.

Desperate on the edge of a black hole,
π wanted to divide by zero, and disappear,
but Dirac equation showed up, and said:
- "(∂ + m) ψ = 0", I am quantum connection,
and you must understand,
that two particles that were at one time together,
are still somehow related,
no matter the distance between them,
although they are at different galaxies and dimensions,
the connexion between them will be there. "

And so, π understood that
he was in an electrical loop with zero love,
and as well as gravitational waves does,
everything vanished into the space and time,
to the point that on the Earth,
no one could not have a trace of
that mathematical story of love.





The Structure of MACE





The layout of MACE is majority male
Loads of blokes who think they're destined to fail
Day by day on stresses and strains
Wondering why it's so much pain

The stresses we face trying to understand
A concept that’s been unsolved till’ date
The strain on our brain as we stay up all night
And work our butt’s off till’ late

The stiffness in our bones from sitting at a PC
For 12 hours a day
The tension in our minds, wondering if it’s worth it
And not just the pay

Newton claims every force has an equal reaction,
But I’m sure my supports can’t take the opposition
Like a crack in the wall grows exponential,
Overwhelmed with work I’ve reached my potential.

During exams is the peak bending stress,
Saying to myself, ‘is all this work worth just a pass?’
Just because I managed an A* in math
Doesn’t mean I automatically know every Laplace

So here we are, just skipped two lectures
Lying in bed while hugging my cushion
Thinking that maybe dropping out
May be the only solution.

But this rant I am on is just a delusion
Engineering is great and that’s the only conclusion
To finish this degree is my own solution
Because I know ill look back and embrace that decision

…Don’t worry mum, ill make it.





Nothing:





I am everywhere and no where all at once.

You would hit yet miss me if you threw first punch.

I was here when you arrived, I'll still be here when you go.

You came from me and will return to me whether time runs fast or slow.

I have an uninterrupted view to every single thing.

My window is always open but you cannot look in.

Science and religion incessantly persist,

in trying to prove or disprove that I do not exist.

I am the empty silence between every musical note.

Forever present in every line that Mozart ever wrote.

I am the cradle that holds everything.

Everything that is or will ever be.

You know that I am here but I remain a mystery.

No matter the distance, time or place.

I am an empty space.

Am I nothing?





Pursuit of Unknown





All was free under this ancient sky
Free – water, air, earth and light
Our minds lost in mathematical universe
Making possible everything that logic denied

With innocence, with greed
In ravaging nature, we succeed
Inventions, discoveries, technology
A fascinating legacy, we leave

Yet, mighty debts they breed
Innocence or greed
A burning curiosity or chasing human comfort and need
Is it the best period for our kind or god playing with our mind, I can’t decide?

Side effects followed every alpha, beta and phi
We went to Moon, had the earth destroyed
World got warmer, sea level went high
More deaths and diseases, lost polar bears and ice

Now, we prepare for Mars, composing our own apocalypse
For our future - our breed
What was once free, shall come with price
An Irony Indeed! More we prepare to live, sooner we die!





Closer





The Moon scares me
But not as much as the stars
Too far they say, too far
No-one, especially not you
You stay here, stay still
Don’t look there look here
But then it's not too far and it's me
Or you
Or mine
Or yours
Or ours
And we can sit and watch them
Looking where we like





Across domains





The poet, the scientist
Tried to reconcile.

But the beauty they attested to seemed so different.

Where lights danced fleetingly on the heavens for one,
The other explained that charged particles disturb the earth's magnetosphere.

One scribes fleeting, perishable thoughts as they leap into existence,
the other states that energy is always conserved throughout the universe.

But for both, it seemed,
The simple, inalienable 'truth',
Lies scattered in a series of moments,
Fragmented through different lenses.

And to seek it,
Or reconstruct it whole,

Is worth one mortal's stretch,
Or a history of them.





Rumblings of a curious mind





The universe is lovely dark and deep
I crave to know it by a parsec's leap
There's mystery down there, below the beds I sleep
And also, some above me where the heaven's creep
The world is lovely dark and deep
And the god's are methodical in its upkeep
The woods are mystical, dark and deep
And I crave to know it by a parsec's leap

Some say the gods have created the heavens
Some say the gods have been created by the commons
I say there is not a need for a deity's summon
I say the important bit is to get everyone’s mutual amen
The woods might be scary, when dark and deep
But science has promises it tends to keep

We know the questions, and we ask them in lots
But we are deluded and scared easily by zealots
The important part to remember is to continue to ask
To question the promises which seem veiled in mask

The woods has been there, and will always be
Yet, our lives are limited short and steep
The question is,
Will you be there in absolute denial, ten feet deep?
Or you would be audacious to take the giant leap

Faith can be airy enough for the zealot's to threap
Yet, in their mind, the people just let these ideas seep
Smart people have always herded groups like sheep
Yet they still tend to, even when the world clearly weeps

It is us to spread the word, in desperate times of need
Awaken the slept, and break the path which the fanatics lead
God is not the problem here, it's the human deed
The human mind just needs a plant of logic to seed

The woods have always been beautiful, dark and deep
One should crave to know it by a parsec's leap
To question the promises which seem hard to keep
To be audacious and take the giant leap
Only then will the world be in a harmonious good night's sleep
Only then, will the gods rise from their eternal heap





Live like Composite





Future,
alike to an Ashby diagram
Lots of parameters
A lot we can consider

Choices are to be tough
To be strong
To resist friction
To embrace expansion
To be sustainable
Or a mixture of the desirable

One need not always be the main player
How about supporting layer?
Noble like sacrificial coating
Shines like gluing resin
Of a weak interphase that dissipates tension

Have you heard about composite?
Of it people get excited
As they shift from conventional blacksmith

Composites give us ways to craft and tune our choices
The stiff increases in toughness
The flexible gets reinforced

Like in composite, dream demands reinforcement
Worst is being isotropic, indifferent
Better is to have preference
Best is to show specific performance

Friends, living up Holy Grail is not cheap
But we know are going to win,
maximize the trade off like composite





The Butterfly Effect (A Tribute to William Shakespeare)





When Heaven’s creation I first espied,
Extraordinary desire rose within,
Once impregnable heartstrings now untied,
Mine ecstasy did her conquest begin;
Mine fragile soul enchantress’ eyes beckoned,
Her ruby lips smiling exquisitely,
Those flaxen locks might elicit vection,
In passion I forget reality:
To thine siren’s call I bow futilely,
Thine dulcet voice perchance a Piper’s fife,
Our affair resembles idolatry,
Mine sole ambition to christen thee wife;
The butterfly effect evoked in me,
To covet thee: disciple’s destiny.





Science double-edged




Human history has gone through a long period
From stone age to digital age
From spear to nuclear
From killing for living to killing for nothing

Science and technology is soaring
Making life more pleasant and mild
But sometimes science is terrifying
When the ruling people getting arrogant and wild

You want to attack militant but you bomb civilian
You wanna bring light colour but you give dark dolour
Science is supposed to spread humanity not fatality
As one million lives saved is not enough,
while one innocent death is more than enough





Dear Mother Earth





Thank you for receiving me with open arms
You who saw me come into this place
with innocent eyes and weak arms
You who witnessed my growth and maturity
thank you for receiving me in fields of green
Thank you for sparkling in me the curiosity
of my home, for things that are physical and mechanical
You who provided so much for me to understand
Your vibrant colours and all kinds of textures
Thank you for providing everything freely
without condition with no strings attached
If only i could know what is behind what
my not so innocent eyes see
to see what is behind your silent suffering
I wish i could hear your cries of help,
that my ignorance is killing you
I wish you could see you signing at me
that my ability could save you
that my curiosity and passion may inspire others.
I wish we knew that by saving you we save ourselves
If only we could realise that with your death
we die too
I wish i could believe that it isnt too late
That with integrals and differentials
i could make a difference
But who am i?
Who am i to even think that something could change
who am i to think that i can make a change
What is the point of knowing how to solve a
second order differential equation
when every four minutes forests the size
of footballs are burnt across the nation
You that gifted us with beautiful fields
that now are ashes on a barren land
When did our ingenuity was overtaken by greed
that our ability to innovate and to foster was blinded
by the need and want of material things
When did we stop caring about our home
When did we decide it was ours to keep,
or rather ours to destroy
Maybe just maybe another crazy math head like me
will hear the whispers
maybe that same math head will see
the signs that are being signed to us
And maybe then together enough math heads will gather and join the fight, the personal fight to stop greed
to recognise the need for us to work together and break our differences, to unite in brotherhood, that the very same passion
for numbers will bring us into understanding and just like that
with science and progress, we shall leave a green field for our children to run, a clean ocean for them swim and a clean atmosphere for them to breath





Tearful men





The night trembles and the forest leans
Men march. A rumble in the far green
An entire legion following the drum beats
Into the dark they phantom, running feet
But dark is the night and torches are lit
Clear is the sky, but darkness awaits
In great numbers they went, for glory awaits
Marauding soldiers never to comeback
Heralding a mystery of a failed attack
Into the dark they phantom, running feet
Fearful of the unknown, wilding at sight
Here they go, unto the darkness of the night
Tearful men…





A Tragic Affair





How often we wish we could turn back the clock,
The hands that trace time, each tick and each tock.

Looking back can be precious, something time cannot measure,
Engraved in our timeline each moment of pleasure.

Once individually the brightest, nothing could compare,
Brought together through our darkness, a tragic affair.

A unique dance was followed, each movement a crime,
With every passing second destroying our prime.

To witness one another in our own mysterious ways,
Grow up and mature - we treasured those days.

But raw greed and desire from our intensifying bond,
Diminished our duo to merely ripples on a pond.

Fate knew our journey was one we could not save,
A story to be told through a gravitational wave.





First Year at Uni





The first day at university it is,
The buildings beckoning birth of knowledge here,
And I, a fresh adventurer in this
Grand universe, begin my zen career;
With hopes that strings of fate will change today
And weave new fabrics of profound display.

The first of days are fateful of them all
And tune the fine parameters of the rest;
And where your kismet kernel will now fall,
There will the shoots of friendship burst in zest.
Then fear not, dandelion, if you do not know;
The nurturing winds ensure where best you grow.

Activities, games, societies and events
Will quench the juvenile questioning of your mind;
And ill-famed fresher’s fair will, with consents,
See that you’re to a dozen societies signed.
Sign up for ten, no twenty! Let passions loose!
‘Til thoughtful reckoning render a few for use.

And nights, they’re meant for lawless celebrations,
And pent up longings of a rhythmic fest.
Never mind the morning after; Reverberations
Can harm us not without our strong behest.
Or so we think each night, ‘til rues return;
But being ourselves, we know we never learn.

The labyrinth of books will let mind’s eye
Probe into space, split atoms, conjugate
Bacteria, stir up revolutions, pry
Romantic rendezvous and other fates.
In erudite lectures, thoughts will not refrain
From building stations for your scholar trains.

These transient pleasures will however be fraught
With raids of sharp exams; stay steadfast! for
The sleepless nights in Alan Gilbert ought
To armour you in the rehearsing war.
Have hope that your battalions still remain
And for your tireless valour reap you gain.

Midst the melange of these stochastic dreams
By chance another dancing soul you’ll find;
The act of love abides not by our schemes
But transcends boundaries that we first defined:
But pleasant is the event we don’t contrive
Yet alters beautifully our delicate lives.

Come summer much the jubilant joys you’ll savour
And bid goodbye to friends until next year.
The Friday loiterings in George Begg you’ll favour
And spend a last glance at your dorms sincere,
Wishing that time had not so quickly passed
But stayed awhile, letting your pleasures last.





Fifteen Thousand Volts





AAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAA
AAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAA
AAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAA





The Berlin Dream





Convivial perpetuance and a naive curse:
All that I knew, I knew because of love,
Renouncing laws from an antique universe,
Losing myself to fabrics knit above;
And faith it was, that fates would intertwine -
The denouement phantasmagorically vivid:
My soul had drunk insouciance so divine
At palaces where concertos thrall the spirit!
Remembrance has a painful sting at caress,
Through wishing spurred, piqued further through desire;
In genuine love, the truth will never embarrass
Nor from the speaker's lips a word require.
Even when the waves and clouds die in their youth,
Zen fluid are they, and they live through the truth.





Helping Hands.......





A crying mother lying in pain,
Waiting for an extraordinary gain.
He was there, a tiny little baby,
Light as a twig, cute and flabby.
An angel was born, one full of light,
He made them happy even at night.

Years passed the baby was young,
He learned things and the innocence flung.
A natural he was like they said,
Never stopped, never feared always unafraid.
His success were endless,
As he was a 'truly god blessed'.
A boy with a heart he went on with life,
Years went by, admiring him in strive.

A grown boy, love being called a man,
A sportsman in look, yes, with all the tan.
Excellence he had, hard work was small
A gust of wind came along and took away all.
The fame was gone, the love was divided,
He wandered around totally unguided.
The history was repeated and the baby cried again,
He feared the dark and the endless foggy rain.
Alone in the dark he stood in a corner,
With no help in way and no trust in balance.
A hand came up in all this silence,
It was his mother offering her guidance,
He was in tears, and could not control.
She hugged him tight and said 'alright',
On keens he was and she picked him up.
She taught him to walk again and made him work long,
And thats how the helping hand rights the wrong.





THAT Exam





This paper’s all in gibberish
I think I’m going mad
I swear I looked at ALL my notes
Or at least…. I thought I had

The class brain sits in front of me,
Pen whizzing left to right.
It really really is the most,
Unhelpful bloody sight!

Oh, I think I can do 2c),
Finally, some luck!
‘Using your answer from 2b)’
Oh f**k, f**k, f**k!





River





Her power is superior
Her treatment is inferior
How can we make it clearer
That her being is our bearer
Pollution, erosion, depletion...
It's a cycle of repetition
How she longs to peacefully meander
And be kind to those counting on her
Justice is her constant banner
Upstream, downstream, no favoritism
Adventure is her formula
"What a savage and a ravage!"
is the old adage...
All the while, she wants us to come of age
To see that her mission is our well-being
Her message is that while living
We ought not to reach a standstill
But to progress to our destiny
With all the ups and downs
The steadiness and the turbulence
The clarity and turbidity
We shouldn't be unwilling
For it is in giving that we receive
We should never be deceived
That our destination isn't bound to come
Thus when we shall reach the gates
Along with all our mates
We shall savor the calm of the ocean
Which in that case, will be heaven!





The Mind of a Membrane





Loss of words and of unable to cope

just standing in isolation, I long for cross-flowing

paralysed with these islands of polarity

attracted only to the dead-end, stuck here on the surface

it hurts. Dear Pore, let me through

I do know that pain means living

and to be alive is lucky

but sanity keeps pulling me to the permeate side

I am trapped and transported away with this hopelessness,

yet why can’t I be open and honest about it?

to contain and still be strong as the retentate

shedding no tears

although I am much less than the composition I used to be.

Losing part of me

is no sign of a weakness,

it means somewhere, somehow

a heart, quite big enough, is guiding me.

Pressure may drift me further away

obsessed with the pain of what seem temporary

even what’s left of hope turning me wobbly.

Hold on! There is a door small enough for me to squeeze through

a carbon-carbon gap welcoming still,

I hope I will make it through.

Hopelessness but able to hope?

Give pause dear, to your self-contradiction.

Have a pause.





Aluminium as ambient




Slender to the point of translucence
Rendered in the away.
Others needs found in my impuissance,
Another’s hope in stay.

She’ll find what she wants in me.
Steel’s Young’s unduly poor.
Strength proportional in fee.
Alength we find ourselves nevermore.

Paris’ law applies here too;
Ferrous to a magnet in kin
We’re held close by an unseen glue.
Dear aluminium, my antonym of din.





Go on





I sit here in maths and my mind goes awash,
there are thoughts of you and thoughts of who I want to be.

Is this me?

Sitting here drowning,
falling like lead,
the water rises so fast it is what fills my head.
Drowning in sorrow,
drowning in tears,
drowning in the work and pain and trial that comes with four years.
Sitting alone amongst a sea of people,
why aren't you here, why are they near?
I know i'll lose you, i know what we'll choose to do.

But for now i'll cling on, try and be head strong,
listen to the lecture, shit, where's everyone gone?





Rebirth





The first touch makes you glow,
But be careful of what you sow.
Given thought makes you fly
You think heaven is the sky.

Two yourselves, next to your dear,
But there's only you in the mirror
Her you try to fumble
She does not answer your call
Abandoned you fall
Tar-like venom fills you in.. you crumble...
Suffering your eyes water
Alone you lie, waiting to disappear.

Grimmer... yet you dive again
Silver... bullets pierce the veil
Leaving all behind through a wail
Once more the sweet feeling to befriend.





Trivial - a warning to proffesors





"Trivial" proclaimed Kakutani as he hurried on
But to one student the proof did not look fun
He timidly raised one hand "sir, that looks tough to me"
"C'mon boy can't you see..."

But Kakutani could not see.
He paused,
Seconds turned to minutes
"I shall present it at the start of the next lecture"

To the library he went to find the proof
However it turned out to be rather aloof
Eventually he tracked it down
But all he could do was frown

"The proof is trivial and left as an exercise for you"
The author of this paper? Kakutani, 1942





3 AM





When the dust settles
When the air cools down
The comforting words fall to the ground
Memories come crawling back
A poisonous dark cloud

In the longest moments
(They never seem too end)
All weaknesses exposed
The past unable to amend

You wish you could take it all back
You wish you had a second chance
And the happiest thought in your mind
Is that oblivion is inevitable





The solid angle





When disc becomes round
A cone projects from within
a over r squared





Jetsam





Upon the north atlantic
The raft of bodies spent
Would fill the Mackay's hold five-fold
And fester as she went.

So first class got the caskets
And second got the sacks
And third a moment's pause before
We tossed their bodies back.





Rise and Wonder





Everything in life has got a price
Whether it is beans or even rice
Whether it is chips or even fries

That is why we try to rise
Ignoring all the pains and cries
Afterall with time it dries
So that when we make our tries
We could win win win things thrice

Too many people with words of lies
I do not wish that anyone dies
I just want them to use their eyes
To see the beauty of how time flies

Bring out the bottle of champagne from ice
Forget the evils and sleazy vice
Shout out to the girls and all my guys
Thanks to all for being so nice.

Now to the Lord I must surrender
Though my days were made of blunder
Though my ways were stocks of slander
Neither did he repel with thunder
Nor did he put me assunder

He is too great to be my father
And too kind to be my mother
Every night it is on him I ponder
I Dedicate to God my life of wonder





Gun Metal





The journey, not the result

To soar through the air, from young man to adult

Sleepless nights, my mind covered in grey

Twisting and turning trying to keep the abyss at bay

The journey, not the result

Scared to converse, scared to consult

Each mistake a brand on my mind

Ink covering my eyes leaving me blind

The journey, not the result

At the end will I exult?

Will the burning in my mind subside?

Will I finally wake up feeling alive?

The Journey, not the result

Expectations which I only ever insult

The abyss creeps every night

Perhaps the journey will be remembered as the blight.





Sand and Flower





The sand scatters in the desert, normal, silent, and unnoticed.
A flower thrives in the fertile ground, outstanding, loud, and beautiful.

When a fresh breeze blows, the flower sways like dancing and any snipping shot of it can be a desktop background, while the sand remains still.

When a fierce wind blows, the sand gets a chance to dance, to be mad, and to control the whole vision, while the flower was bended.

Trees and houses may protect the flower, while nothing can protect the sand in a desert, except itself.

The sand may resist long, while the flower has a glimmer of extreme beauty.

Is it possible to get mixed merits?
Well, 'sand flower' is not as beautiful as a true flower and 'flower sand' is not as rigid as the true sand.





Humanities and Sciences together.





What humanity and science both share,
Are the elements water, earth, fire and air.
They are the constituent elements of life,
No matter how they may strife.

Philosophy, literature, engineering and more,
These are all concepts that I do adore.
All of these concepts are linked to another,
As everything in life is bound to each other.

Cancer, Scorpio and Pisces are examples of astrology.
Whereas, C,H,N,O,P,S are illustrations of biology.
After all, it is the compounds that form the anatomy,
Though sometimes a little too irrationally.

Graphene, metals and fuel cells is what I do.
Find my degree within that clue.





words




how can you call my words beautiful
when yours weave intricate patterns on
the fabric of your sentences?
your fingertips are instruments,
finely tuned that play the strings
of your mind perfectly.
if i were simple,
i would call your words
a persian rug,
unique and something
to adorn my home with.
but i would rather be accurate
and call your words
constellations in the sky,
ever changing and unique
to the observer.
your words are stars
and constellations.
i am a stargazer trying
to see every meaning and angle,
but never quite managing to.
how can you call my words beautiful
when yours light up the sky
and make me never feel alone?





Waves





A sinusoidal wave
of flesh and bone
ether riding high
in the ebb and flow
river flow!
inside of me
blow wind blow
on the open sea
scattering gold fire
to the tip of myself
music made motion
a sensual wealth
of touch and taste
as I spring a-new
phoenix from fire
and me into you
a magnified focus
on filtered thoughts
in a chemical correction
of coloured noughts
and ones in code
a connected web
pervasive yet singular
inside my head

you are with me
in one soft hum
crescendo electric
and then
we’re done.





Between two stops





So many grand pianos,
Yet none that I can play.
Not being in the mountains,
Does make me feel insane.

Inside the pools of light,
Within the quasar dance,
This too, this too shall pass
And even war, by chance.

The rhyme shall pass as well,
And wordless music too,
No heaven and no hell,
This Universe's for You!

So let's go there once more,
Beyond the Milky Way.
And please don't tell me "NO"
That's what all others say.





ASI





Dear Mr. MP,

I'm literally writing this lyrical epiphany for all to see, and it's not a matter of fame.
I don't give a shit about critical acclaim. All I wanna do is try and put my name
out there, but I'm scared; for the past few years I've become aware
of what I believe to be the most important paradigm society has ever seen.

The intelligence explosion
unbeknownst to most the notion of a literal god
hitting our world out there, just read and nod.
I'm glad because it shows you won't curl,
it shows you’re rad lads and girls, open to reading the words that I hurl…

Now let's get back to the topic,
the fact that ASI is on its way and that no-one
can stop it.
It doesn't help that governments will openly try to block it.
But we're happy to sit here, no fear, hands in pockets.

Yet that's nothing new,
ignorance from higher powers propagates through and through,
a few true nomads stand aware,
of what really should scare.
But there's more to what is
just, fair.

Now it would be too time consuming
require too much fine tuning
and generally unreasonable
to explain the problem in full,
but all I want to do is inspire
the tired reader, trialed by fire
to make his/her own ventures here
and enjoy what’s near in upcoming years.
So what is this topic I want you to hear,
the topic that should cause genuine fear,
It’s the fact that the singularity is near.
The singularity is near...





Stories in the sky





Cranes overhead their white deliveries,
ceramic, swaying and carefully dropped.
Maybe a microcrack nothing to worry about.

The landscape changes, the old returned to dust.
The fresh towers rise - glass lives on every floor.
Viscous, it moves the swelling red heart.

Cranes overhead their black deliveries,
metallic, swaying, unstoppable.
It didn't take much.





You and me





You enjoy the summer blue sky
And shine
I greet the winter white snow
And night

You stay in the dream
With the tear falling
Falling me

We sit by the sea
Saw the wave falling
Falling you and me

We walked on the street
Met the leaf falling
Falling you and me

We leaned at the peak
watched the sun falling
Falling you and me

We chased in the field
Touched the snow falling
Falling you and me

I stare in the London Eye
While the light missing
Missing you

You wonder along the Bondi Beach[1]
With the time leaving
Leaving me

I lie on the grass
With the eyeglass missing
Missing you
Like a darling.

Finally the dream end
And we become
You and me.

[1]One of the most famous beach in Sydney





The Engineering Excursion





From the complexity of nuclear power generation
To the simplicity of levers and pulleys
The prodigious amount of work that made it possible remains invisible
A hidden world beneath the surface of ease and efficiency
The submerged iceberg of intricate components and sagacious concepts
Only divulged through the study of engineering

From the colossal scale of the solar system
To the infinitesimal inherence of sub-atomic particles
The foundation of the Earth was laid and its measures determined
And using a negligible fraction of the wisdom used to create the universe
Humanity created the art of handling and exploiting these laws of nature
The art of engineering

From a profound passion in aeroacoustics
To a spark of interest in addition and subtraction
Knowledge led to the ingenuity of devising and inventing
Striving for a perfect solution for our problems
But a closure can never be reached
Humanity is stuck in an asymptote to technological perfection

But though with all the limitations and constraints
Creating an insurmountable distance and intransigent maze to the objective
Engineers are stimulated by the challenges
Devoting their lives to the iterative journey of problem solving
To improve the quality of life by a finite increment





Wonder





Long lost the wonder
Of magic in the unknown
Explained away, theories, facts,
Endless data dulls the soul

Or is there beauty
In what is seen
Observed and understood
A puzzle, when complete.

Long gone Romantic days
Nature, poetry, the same
Humboldt, Darwin and Thoreau
Something lost on me and you

And yet the elegance of Mawell
Feynman inspires
Perhaps they can grant
The feeling I desire

So science please still stir
Some feeling, emotion, awe
In heart and mind
With each new law.





Elements of the Earth





Selenium, molybdenum, cadmium
Elements which can cause contamination
Uranium, Technetium, Plutonium
Their radiation can destroy a nation
All the elements and all their potential
To remediate or eliminate a world of a critical situation





Roses are Red




Roses are red,
Violets are blue,
MACE10492





You were gone!




My heart stopped beating for a microsecond,
I realized you were gone, gone forever...
You always had a special place in my heart,
I never told you this, but it's true.
I always dreamed of you, but never told you,
thought of you in lectures, but never told you,
loved you, but never told you.
But today, when I was going to tell you...
You were gone!

We barely spent three months together,
but, it felt like three years.
We can't separate this soon, it's too soon!
Somewhere, I still think you will return...
I hope you do!
Today, 20th of December, 7:58 pm... He took you...
You are gone!

YOU, SEQUESTER!
Bring me back my love!





Pi




The sound of the pen crawling on the paper
following ideas pouring from my mind,
an electric
shiver
gliding down my back
“I think I got it!”, yes, that’s Maths.

Hot brown fuel falling down my throat
speeding up my river of thought,
“I can’t take this anymore!”
I said after writing down that Aleph-naught.

Chalk I breathe,
with Gauss I dream.
What is wrong with me?

“God does arithmetic”,
and so do I.
I should really stop thinking just about pi.





14 steps to Freedom





1.  Plug in your music, turn it up nice and loud.
2.  There’s a Plan to exam, got to do yourself proud.

3.  Head to library, workin long and non-stop.
4.  Information absorb, for marks you can’t drop.

5.  Pull out all the stops, you use up all reserves.
6.  So when your hands start to shake, it be coffee not nerves.

7.   With no Christmas break, you’ve stayed home to work
8.  That’s all wasted time when the exam’s a big jerk.

9.  Your time’s ticking down, you’ve got 3 exams left
10. Another derivation, and you’ve got to be adept.

11. Hans Zimmer plays on, but you keep going through.
12. ‘a) Integrate this function’ You haven’t got a clue.

13. Sem 1 is now over, your exams are complete.
14. Sem 2 is on Monday, steps 1 to 12 repeat.





Red Giant





Gaze on the expanse of a broken world
Suffused with the light of a distant moon,
Where dunes of fine sand, sculpted by the wind,
Rise like the waves of a forsaken sea.

And in the sky the cosmos is altered;
Constellations known to Greece and to Rome
Are warped and changed by the passing of ages.
In the heavens a new firmament reigns.

Look now! A terrible dawn is breaking!
The land is bathed in pestilential light -
The blistering kiss of a furious sun!
Boulders split beneath the red giant's glare.

A province in the empire of the Sun,
Cruelly stripped bare of her water and air,
Quiet but for clouds of dust which rise from
The empty basins of the sundered seas
And land softy upon a nameless shore,
Where the ground is cracked and men tread no more.





Fairy





People are lazy
Feeling is dizzy
Sound is fuzzy
Memory is hazy
Life is so mazy

Drinking a whisky
Listening a Jazz
Thinking something crazy
Clock is ticking
Make science amazing





Planet gone by





Poor little Pluto
Blue and sad
But while he’s sulking
He’s secretly mad

“I’m not a planet”
Pluto cried
He just didn’t make it
Although he tried

He circled the sun
Round and round
A tick in the box
He was nearly crowned

Next test was simple
He was small
But had enough gravity
To stay in a ball

Here comes the problem
Five large moons
Charon, Styx, Kerberos
And secretly Troons

Poor little pluto
Blue and sad
These are the reasons
I guess it’s too bad





Dead Pigeon





There's a dead pigeon on the M1.
The Earth pinwheels round the sun,
And it just lies there, on the motorway,
Entrails hanging out, its decay
Only just begun.
And in distant space, a star
Collapses, to rebound as a blazing supernova.
The splattered bird is passed by thousands of cars.
They won't know someone's sun's been scattered over
The vacuum of space
For another 3 billion years.
As a backseat child
Points and stares, her fascinated face
Betraying she has yet to learn to fear
The dismembered pile
Of what was a bird,
A black hole,
Somewhere in the dark, cold,
Uncharted cosmos, releases specks of heat,
And our own, little world
Trodden by 14 billion little feet,
Pinwheels round the sun.
There's a dead pigeon on the M1.





Cosmic Accident





As I lay on the ground beneath the stars,
I ask myself the things I'm scared to know,
Like what is it we really truly are?
And when we are gone, where is it we go?
The stars gave me no reply aloud,
And yet I kept on staring at the sky
As though the answers will rain from a cloud,
Then suddenly I could only ask why:
Why am I unafraid of things above?
Everything is massive compared to me,
Like all the galaxies and stars thereof,
Yet I'm content with how small I'm to be.
I can see that we are not heaven sent-
We are merely a cosmic accident.





God decided





I asked birds in the sky
Is the world heaven or hell?
I asked fishes in the river
Are people good or evil?
I asked flowers in the wood
Will I be lucky or miserable?
God is silent
God is silent

God will not tell me the answer
But the Bible says
people are sinners
since Adam and Eva ate the apple
In the Garden of Eden
Everyone must suffer from the birth
God decided
God decided





Footprints in the Soil





I sang of light, of light of pale silver in the dim,
and light appeared of pale silver upon the eastern rim.
As night drew on the Moon grew bright, his illuminating glow
was bathing frozen ground in silv’ry light upon the snow.

As I look up towards the Moon, my mind begins to race,
for what’s it like to travel there, through the depths of space?
To walk upon his surface and look back towards the Earth,
must leave an everlasting mark of wonder and of mirth.

To walk among the rocks and leave my footprints in the soil
ever takes my mind away from lifetime’s daily toil.
But night draws on and fair Moon’s light begins to slowly sink,
beyond the western rim of Earth, it’s bed time here I think.

I wake next day and think ahead - my day spent in the lab,
the spectrometer I need to prep and the Moon I need to grab!
Today I’m working on the Moon and to his soils I go,
fair anorthite and olivine, and pyroxene star the show.

Pyroclastic beads of vibrant colours spring to sight,
brightest red and deepest green, and blacker than the night.
It suddenly occurs to me that fresh as they may seem,
these lunar samples are far older than I could ever dream.

‘Why have we as human beings never yet returned
to that magnificent desolation of which our hearts have yearned?’
That is the question that ever I ask as I sit now upset
knowing more of these amazing samples man may never get.

Again that night I sang of light, of light of silv’ry Moon
and as I bathed in full Moon’s light, I began to swoon.
My mind once more walked on his soil, left footprints on his face,
and once again I looked upon the Earth from outer space.

With such a view my heart and soul, hot begin to burn
with fierce hope and pride and joy at man’s future return.
So when I’m asked ‘Why should we go back there?’ I smile and I say
‘because to leave my footprints there is my dream everyday’.





A structure of Iron-ry




There is a building in North campus.
It’s cold, old and dreary.
The architecture is appalling
Making it very eerie
Inside its labs it’s boiling
It makes one very weary
That building is the pariser
Where one learns all the theory
About civil engineering,
How to design a building
Really??
Because looking at this building
It looks like one forgot the theory
An embarrassment to civil engineering
It makes me very teary
The irony is too much to bare
Forgive me for speaking freely.





Imagine





Imagine a mechanical engineer, I bet the image of a man in oil stained overalls will appear.

Is it fair for our lives to be controlled by our phenotype?
Walking down a shop isle you will succumb to a stereotype.
Shelves stacked with pink for girls and blue for boys,
interests already being forged by gender specific toys.

Don’t misunderstand, I’m not asking for pity.
Most girls had a doll house; I had my own lego city.
Just understand we work just as hard as you,
to be sitting in that chair attending that same job interview.

We are not in this industry as a goal for you to attain,
so if you want to appease me, compliment my brain.
Look beyond these expectations of manicured nails and elegance,
because who’s to say beneath beauty there cannot be intelligence?

Now I ask you again: imagine a mechanical engineer. I hope the same image will no longer appear.





untitled





The universe
is finite emptiness;
Infinite reality----inside human beings
embrace it within their minds;
Only physical law,
universal one,
rules itself and everything.





A Blueprint for Genius




If I tighten my focus I can just about get at,
How that implies this, and this leads to that.
This concept I’m struggling to get out of these pages,
When given all the assumptions and working-out stages,
I wonder in earnest over a despondent abyss,
“How on Earth did anyone come up with this?”

In these hours of defeat we need reminding of our reason.
I dreamed of the greatest academic honour, many since a season.
Yet the esteemed monikers scribed in history’s records
Surely can’t have been stumped two weeks into this course.
All want to, and can, improve the lives of those immediate
But to help millions it requires one special ingredient:
Genius.

You can get so far being able to find a log and integrate,
But there’s an unyielding barrier between we and the great:
It takes an additional core to your neurology,
To be able to see what doesn’t seem to be.
An unexpected link, added term, or realisation,
From an unsightly mess of numbers, to an exquisite correlation
Not content with ticking boxes but pondering beyond
Maybe a little pride and the need to belong
At the apogee of history. Everyone would find time
For Darwin, Curie, Newton, Einstein.
Diligence, need for truth, dissatisfaction with the so-so.
The Goldilocks guidance that turns prodigy to virtuoso.

But not every legend is written in this ink,
All it takes is to find one missing link:
The new relativity; a cure for AIDS;
Or a millennium problem would win this accolade.
Maybe I could get lucky, pick a branch to lecture
And then find that path proves an age-old conjecture.
I could be one of the lucky second grade scholars
Not all the best goals are scored by the best footballers.
A jammy sod who’s wangled his name next to Euler and Gauss
Has still improved our world even lacking the same nous.

And who knows, if willing to take such risks
I could indeed find myself, in good fortune, on Desert Island Discs.





behind my eyes





Behind my eyes


Why? when I sleep at night ?
I lay so still, but it feels so right.
Why do the stars above still shine?
Take me to where the angels dine.

I look to the sky to hide my dreams,
Let them flow on a galactic stream.
I don’t want to know where I might have been,
What I would have known, what I could have seen.

I keep trying too slow, down, time.
To make room for this life of mine.
I’ll search the worlds to be surprized,
To satisfy the world behind my eyes.





I know what I want to say




I know what I want to say,
But how do I say it?
That is
The thoughts and feelings
When in my head are perfectly clear,
But when I try and pass them on…

I have words.
Lots of words.
Flying round my head.
How do I catch them?

Put them in order?

They try desperately
To wriggle free
“Don’t pick me”
“I won’t make sense”
“They’ll get completely
The wrong idea”

At last
I win the fight,
Place them on my tongue

And

The moments gone.
I swallow my words
The conversation moved on

Without me.





Why I chose this degree





Why that degree?
“Employability, you see…”
My parents agree.

Why that degree?
“A respected actuary I’ll be.”
My coursemates agree.

Why that degree?
“It’s a great university.”
My teachers agree.

Why that degree?
“To live abroad - an opportunity.”
My friends agree.

Why this degree?
I like hyperbole.
I think spheres are neat,
trigonometry’s sweet,
long division isn’t obsolete.
I enjoy integration,
derivation,
equations and such,
eight decimals to me is never too much.

Why this degree?
I don’t care if you agree,
I like maths and that’s what it’ll be.
I like maths – I don’t care who laughs,
Leave us alone, me and my graphs.





The Diary of Thomas Bayes




Of sermons, Bible, and chapel bells
Your ministry life at the Turnbridge Wells
Though in science you also did best
Ipsa Scientia potestas est

Did you ever imagine, Reverend?
Divine works came out of your hand
When you scribbled the theory of probability
Somehow it reached the 21st Century!

What P(A|B) could be?
It is P(B|A)P(A) divided by P(B)
Such is the law of Bayes Theorem
Simple yet powerful, like an anthem

Some may find the idea a bit odd
But it proved the existence of God
As your friend Mr. Price believed
When your posthumous work was published

Then it was Laplace who understand you
Modern mathematics your discovery he had turned into
Yet he let the Theorem to bear your name
And the world witness as it rose to fame

The Theorem went to war and sinked German U-boats
As it inspired Turing to crack Enigma codes
It went political predicting Nixon vs Kennedy
Even aeronautical when it helped NASA in 1983

Naïve Bayes its love child with Computer Science
Along with the SVM, they are giants
Many things the algorithm can infer
From spam email to breast cancer

Now I'd like to say in humanity's behest
Thank you, Reverend Thomas Bayes





Who is science for ? (An Acrostic of implicit and explicit meaning in the art of communicating science )





Say, Scientist, do tell! Why, when not grey, is the sky so blue ?

Can you inform a humble layman on the nature of this hue ?

I can explain exactly why, lend your ear, lend it bare…

Electromagnetic waves induce dipoles in the air,

Naturally this scattering favours light of lower length,

Consequently, less red than blue by a factor of a tenth.

Exacerbated, grimace thinning across his lay-face, his lay-gaze meets his shoes.

In depth you have explained, scientist, ere my understanding compromised.

Sorrow ! Shame on me, lay-friend, now hear this clear reprise…

Far away in space is a ball of fire – sunshine, bright,

Orange, proud, our dancing partner lavishes us with light,

Rearing towards our planet Earth cruising faster than a blink,

All until the air is reached on horizon’s brink,

Little red is left and blue bereft trundles to our gaze,

Layman, friend, I dearly hope in sky’s no longer haze.

Naive stays the layman, as the order of science is lost in the poetic entropy of her words.

Oh, Scientist! What a lovely image, but of all science devoid.

Then let me try one last time, with all faculties deployed…

The scientist explains at last and the not-so-layman gets the story,

Here clear as day, the lightbulb moment, deconvoluted, glory,

Every person, lay or nay, has the right to understand,

Fulfilled in beauty is the truth, when passed from hand to hand,

Endless meaning to be sought, acrostics hidden in the hue,

When the clouds are lifted, is when the sky is blue.



Science is for all, not the few.





Purpose of Knowing





It's true that when you go to the pub
It's easier to get some mating relations
When instead of the Bernoulli Equations
You do know of human courtship's nub

And when you will have a leaking pipe
I also agree that its fluid regime
As your place starts to be a new river's stream
Won't help in a problem of this type

But as an engineer you are the one
Who develop a beer processing plant
Which will make all those people so drunk
That it will increase sick leave across the whole of Britain

And this is your normal and daily job
To not mess with cartographers and maps
By creating modern rivers from the scraps
when a pipe makes a sudden pressure drop

Because we, Engineers, are the ones
Who keep pushing the World
And you can have my word
We will ensure that tomorrow comes.





Cider & Calculations





The ball of mistakes joins its friends in the grey cage,
Despite all the stereotypes my aim isn't a complete outrage.
Starting afresh, new page and my calculator reset,
I begin the calculations, wondering if it's breakfast time yet.

Numbers amongst symbols scattered between letters,
I've forgone smart clothes, for joggers and sweaters.
Old takeaway by my side, a can of cider in front,
The late nights merge as I scribble down answers with a grunt.

How does one word an email to say "I don't understand?",
Being an engineer doesn't give me all answers at hand.
May I also point out, I'm not a handyman or electrician,
I can't fix everything even with all my tuition.

Oh and yes I'm a girl thanks for pointing that out,
I may be a minority but that's changing no doubt.
The old stereotypes of engineers just aren't right,
Though I'll admit I prefer my dark room to sunlight.





Unkown





You’re rubber veins and silver stains
You’re a silhouette of red against my window
You’re the fear I should feel
And maybe I do
My heart does race and my palms do sweat when I think of you

You’re the eerie light in the peripherals
Of this carefully darkened room
You are the potential for all that is strange and wondrous
All that is terrible and terrific
All that I want to see but am afraid to
All that I want to sense but cannot stand
You are the glorious
The illustrious
Unknown


